STATISTICAL	INFORMATION

BltLATIIIO   TO  CltRTAIII




BRA NCH ES	OF	INDUSTRY

Ill




M A S S A C H U S E T T S ,



B Y	O  L  I V E R	W A R  N  E R  ,
81:C RBTA R T   0	THB COII II O ll W B A LT R ,










B O STO N :
W R I G H T &  P O T T E R ,  S T A T E  P R I N T E R S , N o. • SPR I K O   L ·A  11 1:.
186 6.








-··- ·--
i t' , , ,.,i t, tt A
;	.  .  :·      ·.     t
I	• ,    ' ; )  I  \
•	.      - •    1 .·


A N	A C T
TO OBTAIN THE INDUSTRIAL STATISTICS OF THE COMMONWEALTH.

.& it tnacted,  c., aa folloVJ, :
SECT 1.  The aldermen  of  each city and the selectmen of each town   in the Commonwealth, shall, between the first dayof May and.the first  day of September, in the year eighteen hundred and sixty-five, and also between the first day of May and the first day of September, in every  tenth year thereafter, make to the secretary of the Commonwealth the returns hereinafter specified ; such returns, so far as they relate to the amount, description, and value of stock and fuel consumed, and of articles manufactured ; to the produce of land, quarries, kilns, coal-beds, ore-beds,
and  fisheries;  to  wool, wood,  bark, charcoal, farm  products, live stock,
ice, and imports ; to vessels and  boats built,  and  buildings erected ; shall embrace the year ending on the first day of May in said years respectively ; and in all other particulars shall  state  the facts as  they  shall exist i,n the respective cities and towns on said first day of May, to wit:-
The number of  cotton  mills iii the city or  town.  The  whole  number of cotton spindles; the quantity of cotton consumed ; gross value of all  the atock med ; the number of yards of cotton cloth manufactured, with a descrip­ tion of the same ; the gross value of the cloth manufactured ; the number of pouds of yam manufactured and not made into cloth ; gross value of the same; the quantity of cotton thread manufactured ; value of the same ; the number of pounds of cotton batting manufactured ; value of the same; the number of bales of pel.ille wadding manufactured ; value of the same ; the number of yards of cotton flannel manufactured ; value of the same ; the number of cotton quilts and counterpanes manufactured ; value of the same ; quantity, deecription, and value of all other good• manufactured in said mills; the amount of capital invested ; the number of males employed ; the number of females.
The  number of  establishments   for  printing  calico  and  mousseline  de
laine. The number of yards of calico printed in said establishments; value of the same before printing ; value after printing ; the number of yards of mOU11eline de Jaine printed ; value of the same before printing; value after printing ; the number of yards of goods bleached and colored in said establish-
iv	AN  ACT  TO  OBTAIN STATISTICS.

ments and not printed ; value of the same before bleaching and coloring ; value after ; the amount of capital invested in said establishments; the number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments for bleaching or coloring cotton goods, and not connected with calico or mousseline de Jaine establishments. The number of yards of goods bleached or colored ; value of the same before bleaching or coloring , value afler ; the amount of capital invested in said bleaching or coloring establishments ; number of bands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of spool cotton . Vaine of stock used ; quantity·manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital in the business;  number of bands employed.
The number of woollen mills. The number of sets of woollen machinery ; number of pounds of scoured wool consumed ; gross value of all the stock used ; the number of yards of' broadcloth manufactured ; value of the broadcloth manufactured ; number·of yards of cassimere manufactured ; value of cassi­ mere; number of yards of satinet manufactured ; value of satinet ; number of yards of Kentucky jeans; value of Kentucky jeans; number of yards of flannel or blanketing; value of flannel or blanketing ; number of shawls manufactured ; value of shawls; number of table and piano-forte covers manufactured ; value of table and piano-forte covers; number of pounds of woollen yarn manu­ factured and not made into cloth ; value of woollen yarn ; description and value of all other woollen goods manufactured ; the amount of capital invested in said mills ; number of males employed in tho same ; number of  females.
The number of mills for the manufacture of woollen carpeting. Number of pounds of scoured.wool consumed in the manufactu re of carpeting ; gross value of stock used ; the number of yards and description of woollen carpet­ ing manufactured ; value  of  the same.  Number of  mills for the manufacture of painted carpeting. Value of stock used ; number of yards of painted carpeting manufactured ; value of the same. Number  of  establishments  for the manufacture of all other descriptions of carpeting. Valoe of stocks used ; yards of carpeting manufactured ; value of the same. Amount of capital invested in the manufacture of carpeting ; number of  males  employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of American worsteds. Quantity and value of stock used ; description and quantity manufactured ; value of the same ; capital i°nvested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of  females.
The number of establishments for the  manufacture of worsted  goods,  or goods of which worsted is a component part.  Value of stock used ; yards  of moul!8eline de laine manufactured ; value of the same ; yards of other fabrics manufactured ; value of the same ; pounds of worsted yarn manufac­ tured and not made into cloth ; value of the same ; value of all other goods manufactured ; amount of capital invested in said establishments; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of  establishments  for the 0$nufacture  of  shoddy.  Value of stock used ; number of pounds of shoddy manufactured ; value  of  the same; amount of capital invested in the  business ;  number  of  males employed ; number of females.
AN ACT TO OBTAIN  ST.A TISTICS.	V

The number of establishments for the manufacture of hosiery.  Value of stock used ; quantity and description of hosiery manufactured ; value of hosiery manufactured ; number of pounds of yarn manufactured and  not  made into hosiery ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in said basiness ; number of males employed in the same; number of   females.
The number of manufactorics  of  cloth  gloves  for  ladies  and  gentle­ men ; value  of  stock  used ; description  and quantity  manufactured  ; value  of the same ; capital invested in the  business;  number  of  males  employed ; number of females.	•
The number of establishments for the manufacture of Balmoral skirts. Value of stock used ; number of Balmoral skirts manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number  of  males  employed ; number of females.
The  number  of  manufactories  of  ladies'  silk  scarfs.  Quantity   and valne of stock used ; number of scarfs manufactured ; value  of  the  same ; amount of capital invested in the busineS& ; number of  males  employed  ; number  of females.
The number of manufactories of linen collars and cuffs for ladies. Value of stock used ; quantity and description of all articles manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of head-nets and held-dresses. Quantity and value of stock used; number and description of nets and head-dresses manufactured; ,·alue of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business; numb61' of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of  feathers  and  artificial  flowers. Value of stock used ; quantity and description of articles  manufactured  ; value of the same ; capital invested in the businesss number of males  employed ; number of females.
li. The number of manufactories of bugle trimmings for ladies' garments. The value of stock used ; quantity of trimmings manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the  business;  number  of  males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of jet  pins  for  ornaments  to  ladies' dresses and bonnets,  and of  ladies' belt  buckles and belt  clasps.  Desi:ription  and value of stock used ;.quantity and description of  articles  manufactured  ; "Yalue of the same ; capital invested in  the  business;  number  of  males employed ;  number  of females.
The number of manufactories of wonted dress braids, of worsted embroidery braids, and of elastic cords and webs. Description and value of stock used ; quantity and description of all articles manufactured ; nlue of the aame ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number  of establishments  for the manufacture  of  linen.  Value of stock used ; number of yards of linen manufac&ured ; value of the same ; quantity of linen thread manufactured ; value of linen thread ; amount of capital invested in said business; number of males employed ; number of females.
vi	AN  ACT TO OBTAIN  STATISTICS.

The namber of silk manafactoriea. Valae of at.ock used ; number of yards of silk manufactured ; value of the same ; namber of pounds of sewing eilk manufactured ; value of sewing Bilk ; amount of capital invested in said business;  namber or males employed in the same; number or  females.
The number of manafactories or bonnet  ribbons.  Value  of  stock used ; quantity and value of bonnet ribbom manufactured ; amount of capital invested ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories or belt ribbons for ladies' wear. Value  of stock used ; quantity and description of goods manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of machino twist of all kinds. Descrip­ tion and value of stock used ; quantity and description of twist manufactured ; value of the same; capital invested in the business ; number of  males employed ; number of females.
The number of establiabments for the manufacture of dress trim­ mings, including gimps, cords, buttons, fringes, and tassels. Value of stock used ; description and value of articles manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of rolling, slitting and nail milla. Value of stock used ; tons of iron manufactured and not made into nails ; value of iron thus manu­ factured. ""Number of machines for the manufacture of nails ; tons of nails manufactured ; value of the aame ; amount of capital invested in rolling, slitting and nail  mills ; number of bands .employed.
The  number  of wire  manufactories.  Value of stock  used ; quantity of wire manufactured ; value of the same ; capital invested in the business ; number of bands employed.
The number of forges. Value of stock used ; number of tons of bar iron, anchors, chain cables, and other articles of wrought iron manufactured ; value of said bar iron, chain cables, anchors and other articles; amount of capital invested in said buainesa ; number of hands employed.
The number of furnaces for the manufacture of pig iron. Value of stock used ; number of tons of pig iron manufactured ; value of the pig iron manufactured ; amount of capital invested in said business ; number of bands employed.
SO. The number of furnaces for the manufacture.of hollow ware and cast­ ings, other than pig iron. Value of stock  used;  number  of tons  of hollow ware and other castings manufactured ; value of the same; amount of capital invested in said business ; number of bands employed.
Sl. '!'he number of establishments for the manufacture of  cotton  gim. Gl'Ol8 value of stock used ; number of cotton gins· manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the businesa; number of hands employed.
82. The number of establishments for the manufacture of cotton, woollen and other machinery. G1'918 value of stock used ; value of machinery manu­ factured ; amount of capital invested in said business ; number of hands employed.
AN  ACT TO OBTAIN STATISTICS.	vii
33. The number of establishments for the manufacture  of  machine  and hand cards of all kinds. Value of stock used ; number of hand cards manu­ factured ; value of the same ; number of feet of machine cards manufactured ; Taine of the same; amount of capital invetted in the busineBS ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of ettabliahments for the manufacture of locomotives, lteam-engines and boilers. Value of stock used ; number of locomotives, et.eam-engines and boilers built; value of the same ; amount of capital invelted in eaid business ; number of hands employed .
The number of establishments for the manufacture of fire-engines. Value of stock used ; number of fire-engines manufactured ; value of tbe fire­ engines manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the busineBB; number of hands employed.
36.  The number  of scythe  manufactoriea.   Value of stock used ; number of dozens of scythes manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital inTeeted in the buaineas ; number of bands employed.
87. The number of manufactories of augers, bits and  gimlets;  value  of atoclt used ; number of the eeveral kinds manufactured ; value of the same ; number of bands employed.
38. The number of establishments for the manufacture  of  axes, hatchets and other edge tools. Value of stock used ; number of dozens of axes, hatchets and other edge tools manufactured ; value of the same ;' amount of capital invested in the businea ; number of bands employed.
89. The number of establishments for the manufacture of files. Value of ttock used ; number of dozens of files manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the busineas;  number of hands  employed.
40. GlOIIII value of mechanics' tools manufactured and not elsewhere enumerated ; value of stock used in the manufacture of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of hands employed.
41.  The number of establishments for the manufacture of cutlery.  Value   of stock used ; description and quantity  of cutlery manufactured ; value  of  the same ; amount of capital invelted in the busineBB ; number of bands employed.
42.   The number of establishments for the manufacture of nuts and  screws.
Value of ltock used ; number of gross of nuts and screws manufactured ; nine of the eame ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of hands employed.
4S.  The number of establishments for the manufacture  of butts or binges.
Value of stock used ; number of dozens of iron butts or hinges manufactured ; nlue of the same ; nWJber of dozens of braBB or composition butts or hinges ; nlue of the same ; amount of capital invelted in the busineBB ; number of bands  employed.
44. The number of establishments for  the  manufacture  of  door  latches and handles. Value of ltock used ; number of dozens of door latches and handles manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the bmieeas ; number of hands employed.
I''·	==;,.

business ; nu	ds employed.
16.       The n	•tack and brad  manufactoriea.    Value  of stock  used ; number of tons of        and brads manufactured ; value of  the same;  amount  of capital invested in the business ; DUD!ber of bands employed.
·The nwnber of establishments fqr the manufacture of sbovela, spades, forks and hoes. Value of stock used ; number of dozens  of  sbovela, spades, forks and hoes manufactured ;  value  of  the  same ; amount  of capital invested  in  the business;  number  of  bands  employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of ploughs  and other agricultural implements. Value of stock uaed ; nwnber of ploughs manufactured ; value of the same ; description and quantity of other agri­ cultural implements manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of bands  employed.
Manufacture of metallic gas-pipes, water-pipes and steam-pipes. Valoe of stock used ; number of feet of pipe of the various kinds manufactured ;  value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the businea,; number  Of hands employed.
The number of shops for the manufacture of iron railing, iron fences and iron safes. Value of stock used ; value of  iron  railing, iron  fences  and iron safea manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of bands employed.
•The number of manufactories of metal sheathing of all kinds for vessels. Value of stock used ; quantity and description of aheathing manu­ factured ; value of the same ; capital invested in the business;  number  of hands employed.
The number of copper manufactories. Value of stock used ; tons of copper manufactured ; value of the same ; description and quantity of copper ware manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the busin888; number of bands employed.
The number of bell foundries. Value of stock used ; number and aggregate weight of bells manufactured ; value 0£ the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of hands  employed.
The number of brass foundries. Value of stock used ; description and quantity of articles manufactured ; value of the same; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of hands employed.
The number of manufactories of gas, oil, and kerosene fixtures and lamps. Value of stock used ; quantity manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested ; number of hands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufaclure of britannia ware. Value of stock used; description and quantity of britannia ware manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number  of bands employed.
The number of  button  manufactories.  Value of stock used ; number·  of gross of metal buttons manufactured ; value of the same ; number of gross
of covered  buttons  manufactured ;  value  of the  same ;  number  of  gross Of
wood buttons  and button moulds manufactured ; value of  the same ;  amount
AN  ACT  TO OBTAIN STATISTICS.	ix

of capital invested in the business; number of males eruployed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of corsets of all kinds,. Value of stock used ; nnmber of corsets mannfactured ; value of the same ; capital  invested in the business;  number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of hoop  skirts. Value of stock used ; number of hoop skirts manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; nnmber of females.
The  number  of  glass  manufactories.   Value of  stock used ; quantity of window glass manufactured ; value of the same; description  and  quantity  of other  glass mannfactured ; value of the same; amount of capital  invested·  in the business ; nnmber of bands  employed.
The number of starch manufactories.  Value  of  stock  used ;  pounds of starch manufactured from wheat or flour ; value of the same ; pounds ot starch manufactured from potatoes; value of the same; amount of capital inYeated in the bnsines,s ; number of bands employed.
The nnmber of establishments for the manufacture of chemical prepar­ ations. Value of stock used ; value of chemical preparations manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business,  number of  hand,  employed.
68.  The number of paper mannfactories.   Tons of stock consumed ; value of the same ; tons of  printing  paper  manufactured ; value of  the same ; tons of wrappin paper manufactured ; value of the same ; reams of writing paper manufactured ; value of the same ; all other kinds of paper manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested. in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
6,1. The number  of  mannfactories  of  paper  collars,  for  ladies  and  gentle­ men ; value of stock used ; number and de11eription of collars manufactured ; Yalne of the same ; capital invested in the  business ;  number  of  males employed  ; number  of females.
The n umber of establishments for the manufacture of card paper, cards, and bonnet paper. Valne of stock used ; description and quantity of anicles manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the bnaine!IB ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactoriea of organs, melodeons and harmoniums. Value of Btock used ; number of instruments of the several kinds manufac­ tured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of hands employed.
The number of piano-forte  manufactories.  Value  of  stock  used ; number of piano-fortes anufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested.   Number  of  establishments  for   the  manufacture   of  detached  parts of  piano-fortes.  Value of detached  parts  of piano-fortes  manufactured  ; value of stock  ll!ed ; amount of  capital  invested  in   the   business.   The  number  of all other musical instrument  manufactories.  Value of  stock used ; de11Crip­  tioo and number of musical instruments manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of hands employed in the­ manufacture  of  musical  instruments.
2•
..
X	AN ACT TO OBTAIN STATISTICS.

Number of printing and newspaper establishments. Value of stock used ; number and name of newspapers and periodicals printed ; how often iasued ; groa value of said newspapers &iDd periodicals; amount of capital invested in the buaineai. Number of boob printed ;  value  of the  printing done on the same ; value of all other printing done; amount of capital invested in printing;  number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of bookbinderies.   Vaine of stock used ; value of  book­
binding done ; amount of capital invested in the buaine88 ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of book-publishing establishments ; the number of books published ; value of the same, exclusive of the cost of printing and binding ; amount of capital invested ; number of males employed ; number of  females.
The number of type and stereotype foundries. Value of stock used ; value of types, electrotypes and stereotype plates manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the businea ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number  of clock  manufactories.  Value  of stock used ; number of clocks manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of sewing-machine manufactories. Value of stock used ; number of sewing-machines manufactured ; value of the same ; amount ot capital invested in the busineas ; number of hands employed.
The number of daguerreian and photographic establishments. Value  of stock used ; number of daguerreotypes and photographs taken ; value  of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of pin manofactories. Value of stock used ; quantity of pins manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the busineas ; number of males employed ; number of  females.
The number of manufactories of hooks and eyes.  Value of stock  used; quantity of boob and eyes manufactured ; value of the same ; capital invested ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of looking-glaases and picture frames. Value of stock used ; number of the articles manufactured ; value of the same ;
.amount of  capital invested in the businea;  number of hands  employed.
The  number of establishments  for  the manufacture·of chronometers,
•watches, gold and silver ware and jewelry . Value of stock used ; description and quantity of the  articles  manufactured ; value of the same; amount  of
-capital invested in the businea; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of mattreases of all kinds and materials. 'Value of stock used ; number of mattresses of each kind  made ; value of  the
-same ;  ameunt   of  capital   invested   in   the   huainess;   number  of  males
-employed:; number of females.
The .number of brush manufactories.  Value of stock  used ; number of brushes manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business.;  number of hands employed.
AN  ACT  TO OBTAIN  STATISTICS.	xi

The number of establishments for the manufacture of saddles, har­ nemes and trunks. Number of each  manufactured  ; value  of  the  same; Talue of stock used ; amoun, of capital invested in the business ; number of bands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of military goods and equipments; nine of stock used ; description and quantity of the articles manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the buainea ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of upbolstry manufactories. Value of stock used ; value  of upholstry manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of hat and cap manufactories. Value of stock used ; number of bats and caps manufactured; value of the same ; amount of capi­ tal invested in the business; number of males employed ; number of  females.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of fur goods, including leather gloves and mittens. Value of stock need ; description and quantity of the articles manufactured ; value of the same; amount of capital iDTested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of cordage manufactoriea. Value of stock used ; descrip­ tion and quantity of cordage manufactured ; value of the same; amount of capital invested in the business;  number of bands employed.
The number of ship yards. Value of materials used ; number  of v8111els launched ; amount of tonnage of said vessels ; value of the same, exclmive of spars, rigging, and sails; amount of capital invested in the businea;  number of hands employed.
The number of establishments  for the  manufacture of boats.  Value of materials used ; number of boats built ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business;  number of hands  employed.
The number of mast and spar yards or sheds. Value of materials 1J98d; number of masts and spars manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business;  number of hands employed.
The number of sail lofts. Number of sails made of American fabric daring the year; value of the fabric ; value of  the  sails; number  of  sails made of foreign fabric ; value of the fabric ; value of the sails; amount of capital invested  in the business;  number of  hands employed.
The number of establishments  for the manufacture  of salt.  Number of bushel, of salt manufactured; value of the same; amount  of  capital in'ftl&ed in the business ; number of hands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of railroad cars, coaches, chaises, wagons, sleighs and other vehicles. Number of each manu­ factured; value of the same ; value of stock used ; amount of capital invested in the basinea;  number  of hands   employed.
98.   The  number  of manufactories  of carriage  wheels.   Value  of   stock
Wied l number of wheels manufactured; value of the same; amount of capital inTested in the business;  number of bands  employed.
The number of sugar refineries. Value of stock used ; pounds o( sngar refined ; value of the nme; amount of capital invested in the business i number of hands employed.
xii	AN  ACT  TO OBTAIN STATISTICS.

The number establishments for the manufacture of confectionery. Value of the stock used ; pounds of confectionery made ; value of the same; amount of capital invested in the business; number of males employed ; number of females.
06. The number of establishments for the manufacture of umbrellas and parasols. Number of each manufactured ; value of the same ; value of stock used ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
97. The number of establishments for the manufacture of portmonnaies, pocket books and wallets.  Number  of dozens of each  manufactured ; value  of the same ; value of stock used ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of photograph albums. Value of stock used ; number of albums made ; value of the same; amount  of  capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of ink, envelopes, and other articles of stationery. Value of stock used ; quantity and value of the several articles manufactured ; amount of capital employed ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of clothing.  Value of stock used ; value of clothing manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of  females.
The number of chocolate mills. Pounds of chocolate manufactured ; value of the same; amount of capital invested in the business; number  of  bands employed.
The number of cofFee mills. Value of stock used ; pounds of coffee manufactured ; value of the same; amount of capital  invested  in  the business;  number of bands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of articles from marble and other kinds of atone. Value of stock used ; description and quantity of articles manufactured ; value of the same ; capital invested in the business;  number of hands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of sheet lead and lead pipe. Value of stock  used ; pounds of  sheet  lead man ufactured ; value of the same ; pounds of lead pipe manufactured ; value of  the same ; amount of capital invested in the business;  number of hands  employed.
The numbt-r of establishments for the manufacture of sperm and t3llow candles.  Value of stock used ; pounds of sperm candles made ; value  of the same ; pounds of tallow candles made ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business;  number of  hands employed.
The number of establishments for the  manufacture of soap.  Value  of stock used ; barrels of soft soap manufactured ; value of the same ; pounds of bard soap manufactured ; value of the same ; value of all other soaps manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of hands employed.
Tb11 number of establishments for the manufacture of sperm, whale, lard or linseed oil. Gross value of stock consumed ; gallons of sperm oil manufactured ; value of  the same; gallons of  whale  oil manufactured ; value
AN  ACT  TO OBTAIN STATISTICS.	xiii

of the same ; gallons of lard oil manufactured ; value of the same ; gallons of linseed oil manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business;  number of hands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of kerosene or refined petroleum. Quantity of erode petroleum used ; value f the same ; quantity of coal used ; value of the same; number of barrels or other casks used ; value of the same; number of gallons of kerosene or refined petroleum manufactured ; value of the same ; number of gallons of lubricating  oil ;  value of the same ; number of  gallons  of  napth ; value  of  the  same ; number of pounds of parafine ; value of the same ; description, quantity and value of other products; amount of capital invested in- the business ; number of hands employed.
The number of master builders. Number of  buildings  erected ;  value of the same ; value of the materials  used ; number of hands  employed.
The number of blacksmith shops. Value of stock used°; value of  work done and not included in the returns of other  establishments;  amount  of capital invested in the business ; number of hands  employed.
The number of powder mills. Value of stock used ; pounds of  powder manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of hands employed .
The number of establishments for the  manufacture of arms.  Value  of stock u!ed; description and n umber of cannon manufactured ; value of the same; description and number or quantity of shot and shells manufactured ; value of the same; description and number of small arms  manufactured ; value of the same; number of swords manufactured; value of the same ; deecription, number and value of all other arms manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of manufactories of chairs and settees. Value of stock used ; number of chairs and settees made ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the businese ; number of males employed ; number of females.
114.  The number of cabinet  manofactories.  Value of stock  used ; value  of chairs and cabinet ware manufactured ; amount of capital invested in said business;  number of hands employed.
The number establishments for the  preparation  of rattan  used  in the manufacture of chain, and other  articles of furniture.  Value  of stock  used ; quantity of rattan prepared ; value of the amc ; amount of capital invested in the bminess; number of males employc«l ; number of females.
The number of tin ware manufactories.  Value  of  stock  used ;  value of tin ware manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of hands employed.
The number of comb manufactories.  Value of stock used ; number  of dozens of combs manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of white lead and other paint Value of stock  used ;  pounds  of  white  lead  manufactured ; value of t-hc same ; description and quantity of all other paints manufactured ;
xiv	AN  ACT  TO  OBTAIN STATISTICS.

value or the aame ; amount or capital invested in the busine89 ; number or hands employed.
The number  of establishments for the  manufacture  of  camphene or
burning fluid. Vaine of stock need ; number of gallons or camphene or burning fluid manufactured ; value of the  same ; amount of capital  invested in the bu1ineas; number of hands  employed.
Number of establishments for .the  manufacture  of  drugs, medicines and dyestuffs. Value of stock used ; value of  druga,  medicines  and  dye­ stuffs manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the busine!!S ; number or malea employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments for the  manufacture  of  varnish. Value of stock  used ; number  of gallons of  varnish  manufactured ; amount of capital inveated in the busineas; number of hands  employed.
The number of glue mannfactoriea, and mannCactories for the prep­ aration of gums. Valoe of stock used ; value of glue and gums manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the busineH;  number of  hands employed.
The number of flouring mills.   Number of bushels of grain ground ;
valne of the same; number of barrels of flour manufactured ; value of the same; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of hands employed. 124. The number  of  tanning  and  currying  establishments.  Vaine  of stock used ; number of hides tanned ; number of hides tanned and curried ; value  or  leather  tanned  and  curried ; amount  of  capital  invested   in     the
business ; number of bands employed.
The number of manufactories of belting of all kinds and all materi­ als for machinery. Value of stock  used ; quantity  manufactured ; value  of the same;  capital invested in the buainesa ; number of  hands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of patent and enamelled leather. Value of stock used ; value of patent  and  enamelled leather manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of hands employed.
The number of pairs of boots of all kinds manufactured ; number of pairs of shoes of all kinds manufactured ; gross value of stock used in the manufacture of boots and shoes ; value of boots and shoes manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of engine and other hose of all descriptions.  Valoe of stock  used;  description and number of feet of engine hose manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the bosiness;  number of hands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of straw bonnets and hats. Valoe of stock used ; number of straw bonnets  manufactured ;  value of the same ; number of straw hats manufactured ; value of the same ; value of straw braid mannfoctured and not made into bonnets or hats ; num­ ber of palm leaf  hats made ; value of  the same ; amount or capital employed in the manufacture of straw bonnets and hats; number of males; number of females.
The  number  of   establishments  for  the  manufacture  or preparation of
palm  leaf for hats, hoods  and  bonnets.  Value  of stock  used ; quantity of
AN  ACT  TO OBTAIN  STATISTICS.	xv

leaf' prepared ; value of tbe same ; capital in'Yeated in the basine111; number of hands employed.
Tbe number of estahliahments for the manufacture of palm leaf bats, booda and bonnets. Valoe of stock med ; quantity and deacription of goods manufactured; value of the  same ; capital  inneted  in the bueinees ; number of males employed; number of females.
l.B2. Tbe number of brick yard& The number of bricks manufactured ; nlue of the same ; amoun\ of capital invested in the business; number of hands employed.
The number of eetabents for the manufacture of philosophical nautieal, astronomical, and mathematical instruments. Description and num­ ber of instruments manufactured; value of the eame ; nine of stock used ; amount of capital invested in the buine11 ; number of hands employed.
The value of muff, tobacco and cigars manufactured ; value of the ltoek Wied; amount of capital invested in the bueinese ; number of males employed ; number of femalea.
185. Tbe number of whip manufactories. Value of  the ,tock used ; num­ ber of dozens of whips manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the bueinea; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of establiahmente for the manufacture of blackipg. Value of ,tock used ; groes nlue of blacking manufactured ; amount of  capital invested in the basinese; number of bands employed.
Tbe number of eetabliebmentll for the manufacture of blocks and pumps. Value of stock Wied ; value of blocks and pumps manufactured ; amoant of capital invested in the buinese;  number of  hands  employed.
The number of pail and tub manufactories. Valoe of stock used ; number of each manufactured ; value of the same ; capital invested in the buineas ; number of hands  employed.
Tbe number of eetablilhmentl for the manufacture of wooden ware  of all aorta. Value of etock ueed ; value of ware manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the blllineaa ; number of bands employed.
The number of eetabliabmente for the manufacture of gold and steel pens, and gold aod silver pencil eases. Value of stock need ; number of gold pen, manufactured ; value of the same; number of steel pens manufactured ; value of the same; number of gold pencil cues manufactured ; value of the NIDO ; number of silver pencil cues manufactured ; value of tho same ; amount of capital invelted in the buainese ; number of males employed ; namher of femalea.
Hl. Tbe number of manufactories of gold lea£ Value of atock used ; qnant.ity manufactured ; value of the eame; capital  invested ; number  of malee employed; number of females.
H2.  The  number  of  last  and  1boe-peg  manufactories.    Value  of  nock
1lled ; number of lute manufactured ; value of the same ; buehels of aboe­ pep manufactured ; value of the same; amount of capital invested in the baline.; number of hands employed.
The number of manufactories of wire safes, 1ieves, dish-covers, and other articles made wholly or iu part of wire.   Value of atoek used ;   number
xvi	AN  ACT  TO  OBTAIN STATISTICS.

or quantity of the different articles manufactured ; value of the same ; capital invested in the busine88 ; number of mak?s employed; number of females.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of casks.  Vaine  of stock used; number  of casks  manufactured ; value of  the  same; amount  of capital invested in the business ; number of hands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of stone and earthen ware. Value of stock used ; value of atone and earthen ware manu­ factured ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of hands employed.
The number of manufactories of coffins and burial cases of all kinds. Value of stock used ; number of coffins made ; value of the same ; capital invested in the business ; number of bands  employed.
The- number of planing mills and establishments for the manufacture  of sashes, doors and blinds. Value of stock used ; value of sashes, doors and blinds manufactured; value of all other work done ; amount of capital  invested in the buiness ; n umber of  bands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of boxes.  Value  of stock used ; value of wooden boxes made ; value of paper boxes made ; amount of capital invested iu the business; number of males employed ; number of females.
•uo.  The number of manufactories of razor strops.   Value of stock used  ;
number manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business;  number of hands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of fire-works. Value of stock used ; value of fire-works manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments for the m!'nufacture of friction matches. Value of stock used ; gross of matches manufactured ; value of the same ; amount of capital invested iu tho business; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of India rubber goods. Value of stock used ; description and quantity of goods manufactured i value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of males employed ; number of females.
The number of establishments  for the  manufacture  of gas.  Valoe  of stock used ; value of gas manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of bands employed.
The number of establishments for the preservation of ice for market. Number of tons of ice preserved for market; value of the same ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of bands employed.
The number of establishments for the manufacture of pickles and preserves. Value of stock used ; value of pickles and preserves  manufac­ tuied ; amount of capital invested in the business; number of bands employed. 156. The number of bakeries. Value of stock used ; value of bread manufactured ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of   hands
employed.
The n umber of distilleries. Value of stock used ; number of barrels of alcohol distilled ; value of the same ; number of barrels of all other  liquors
AN  ACT  TO OBTAIN STATISTICS.	xvii

dietilled ; value  of t.be  eame;  amount   of  capital  invested   in   the bWlioeas;
. number of' bande employed.
The number of breweries. Valoe of stock med ; number of barrela of beer manufactured ; value of the same; amount of capital invested in the buai.oe• ; aumber of banda employed.
Number of eatablisbmenta for the manufacture of  articles  not  ela. where  enumerated.    Description and quan&ity of articles manufactured  ; value of the aame ; value of stock ued; amount  of  capital  inveated ; number  of males employed ; number  of  females.
180. The nWDber of veaela employed in the whale fishery. Amount of tonnage of mcb v6118e1s ; number of gallons of lfMlnD oil imported ; value of sperm oil imported ; nwnl!er of gallona of whale oil imported ; value of the aame ;number of poude of eperuuiceti imported ; value of die BUDe ; nWD ber of pounda of whalebone imported ; value of the aame ; amount of capital in'Nllted in the wlaale fiahery ; number of bands employed.
The number of veaela emplo_yed in the mackerel and cod fisheries. Tonuge of veala IO employed; number of banela  of meekerel  taken ; value of the same ; number of  quintale of  codfish  taken ; value of  the same ; valae of eod liver oil 11>ld ; value of salt coneumed in the mackerel and cod fiaberiee; amount of  capital  inveated  in the  business;  number  of  handa  employed.      •
Number of baabela of  abell-fiab  taken.    Value of the  same; amount
of capital invested in the bueineee ; number of  banda  employed.
The  number  of  alewivu, shad  and  aalmon  taken.  Value  of the
aame ; number of handa  employed.
lM. The n111Dber of V8111111Y engaged in the coaetwise or carrying trade. Amount of tonnage of said veaaels; value of the same; amount received for &eigld;  number  of  handa  employed.
The number of stone and marble quarries. The value  of  building B11DDe quarried and prepared for market ; value of marble quarried and pre­ pared for market; amount of capital invested in the buainesa;  number  of haada employed.
The number of lime kilns.  Number of cub of lime manufactul'ed ;
valae  of  the  wne ; amoant  of  capital  invested  in the   buai.oeaa  ; number  of
handa employed.
187. The number of aw-mills. Number of  feet of lamber  prepared for market ; value of the a.me ; nnmber _ of lathe, clapboards, abinglee and etavea prepared for market ; value of the same ; description  and  value of  all  other lamber ; amount of capital invested in the bnaioeaa ; number of banda  ·  employed.
The  number of corda of firewood  and  bark  prepared  for  market   ;
value of the ame ; amcnmt of capital inveated in the basineaa; number of hands employed.
The  number  of  buhela  of charcoal  manllfactnred ; value  of   the
1&1M ; amount of capital inveeted in the basineee; number of bands employed.
170.  The number of coal and ore beds.  Valoe of mineral  coal and il"Oll or edaer ore aad mineral 1Ubetances mintld ; amount of capital invested in the buiDUI j" number of handa employed.
s•
xviii	AN ACT TO OBTAIN STATISTICS.

11' 1, The number of corn and other brooms manufactured ; nlue of the aame; value of the stock consumed ; amount of capital invested in the business ; number of bands employed.
The number of farms. Number of acres of land ; value of same, including buildings ; number of acres of land improved; number of pel'IIOns employed.
The number of acres of unimproved land. 174.     The number of  acres of  unimprovable land.
The number of  acres of  woodland  ;  value  of  the same.
The number of  acres of Indian  com ; number of bushels  of  Indian
corn raised ; value of the same.
The number of acres of broom com. Number of pounds of broom brush ; value of the eame ; number of bushels of broom seed ; value of the aame.
The number of acres of wheat ; number  of bushels of wheat ; nlue
of  the eame.
The number of acres  of rye ; number  of bushels of rye ; value  of  the same.
The  number  of  acres  of  barley ; number  of bushels  of barley  ;
val,ie of the same.
The number of acres of buckwheat ; number of buehols of buck­ wheat ; value of  the aame.
162.     The number  of  acres of oat,; number of bushels  of  oats ; value  of
the same.
The number of acres of millet ; number of bushels of millet ; value of the aame.
The number of  acres of  all other grain  crops;  number of  bushels of
all other grains ; value of  the  aame.
The number of acres of herdsgrass  seed ; number of bushels ;   value
of the same.
The number of acres of cloverd ; number of bushels; value of the eame.
The number of acres of potatoes ; number of bushels of potatoes; value of  the same.
188.   The  number of  acres of turnips  cultivated as a  field crop ;   number
of bushels of turnips ; value of the same.
The number of acres of onions ; number of bushels of onions; value
of the aame.
't'he number of acres of carrots ; number of bushels of carrots; value of  the same.
The number of  acres of cabbage ; value of  the aame.
The number of acres of winter ,quash ; value of the same. 193.  The number of acres of garden seeds ; value of the same.
194. The number of acres devoted to market gardening; value of prodncte. 195. The number of acres of beeta and other eeculent vegetables ; number of bushels of beets and all other esculent vegetables; value of the same ; value
of  garden eeeds prepared  for market.
AN  ACT  TO  OBTAIN STATISTICS.

The  nu1Dber  of acres of 1lax ; number of pounda of 1lax ; value of
tJae 111De ; number of buahela of 11aueed ; value of &xaeed.
The number  of acres of hemp ; number of pounds of hemp; value
of the Mme.
The number of acree of bops ; number of pounds of hops ; value of the same.
The number of acres of tobacco ; nu1Dber of pounda of  t.obacco ;  value  of  the Mme.
The  number  of acres of sorghum ;  gallens of airup ; value  of the
ume.
The number of acres of baaket willow cultivated ; value of the same.
The  number  of acree  of cranberries ; number  of baabela  of cran­
berriet;  value of the same.
The q11Antity of  raw silk raised ; value of  the  eame.
2M. The number of acree of English mowing ; number of t.ons of English hay ; value of the Wile; quantity and value of grass or clover seed.
The number of acres of wet meadow or swale mown; number of t.ons of wet meadow or swale bay ; value of tho  same.
The number of acres of salt marab mown ; number of tons of salt hay ; value of the same.	•
The number of apple trees cultivated for their  fruit ; value  of  the apples ; number of pear tteeB culuvated for their fruit ; nlue of the pears ; number of  all  other trees cultivated  for their fruit ; value  of  the fruit ; value of  nuts  or  berries  cultivated  or  gathered  for market.
The number of Saxony sheep, of diff"erent grades ; number of Merino sheep, of diff"erent grades ; number of all other kinds of sheep ; groaa value of all sheep. The number of pounds of wool  produced  from  Saxony sheep ; value of the same ; number of pounds of Merino wool ; value of the same ; number of pounda of all other wool produced ; value of the same.
209. The number of horses ; value of horees ; number of uses and mules ; Talue of ueea and mules; number of oxen over four years old ; number of l&eer'I under four years old; value of oxen and ateen ; number  of milch con ; number of heifen ; value of cows and heifen ; deecription, number and value of neat stock not embraced above ; number of gallons of milk sold;  value of milk sold ; number of pounda of butter sold ; value of butter ; num­ ber of pounda of cheese ; value of  cheese.
The number of pounds of dreeeed beef ; value of the   same.
The nomber of  pounda of  drealed pork ; value of the  same.
The number of pounds of dreeeed mutton ; value of the same.
The number of  pounda of drelaed veal ; value of  the aame.
2U.    The number of cheeae factories.    Number  of  poanda of cheese  man­
ufactured ; value of the same; number of males employed; number of females.
The  number   of  establiahments   for  condeming   milk.     Number  of
gaDom of  milk condemed ; value  of  the 8IIDe.
The number of nine ; value of the 11&1De; value of poultry sold ; value of eggs aold ; number of pouada of honey ; value of the same; number of poaada of beeswax ; value of the 11&1De ; Yalue of unenumerated anicles of farm produce.
xx	AN  ACT  TO OBTAIN STATISTICS.

Description and qnantity of cloth mannfaetured in tbe family ; value of the same ; value of all other articles manuf'actnred io the family for sale and not before enumerated.

SECT. 2. The secretary of the commonwealth shall  cause  to  be  printed blank tables; conveniently arranged for the return of the facts aforesaid, with blank columns for the return of such facts as are not enumerated in this act, and shp.ll furnish three copies of the same,  together with one copy of this  act, to  the  aldermen  of  each  city  and the selectmen of each town ; the whole to be accompanied with such printed  instructions as he shall deem  proper.
SECT. 8. The secretary of the commonwealth, after he shall have received the returns aforesaid, from the aldermen of  the  several  cities and the selectmen of the several towns,·shall cause to be prepared and printed a true ab.,tract of the same, with each column of figures of such abstract added up, for the use of  the next ensuing  legislature.
SECT. 4. The aldermen of any city and the selectmen  of  any town  may authorize either of their number, or some other suitable person or persona, to collect the information required by this act.
SECT.  5.   H  any  alderman,  selectman  or ·other  person,  authorised
under the provisions of section four of this act, shall wilfully neglect to make the returns as required  in the first section, he shall forfeit and pay   a sum not exceeding two hundred dollars ; and if any person shall refuse to give the information required in said first section, he shall forfeit and pay a sum not exceeding one hundred   dollars.
SECT.  6.   All  fines  and  forfeitures  arising  under  this  act,  may be
recovered  in  any court of  this  commonwealth  having  competent juris­
diction, in an action of debt, one moiety to the Ul6 of him or them who shall sue for the same, and the other moiety to the use of the common­
wealth; or they may be recovered by information filed by the attorney­ general, in any court having competent jurisdiction, in which case they shall accrue wholly  to the  commonwealth.
SECT.  7..    This  act  shall  take  effect  upon its piwage.	[Approwd
Apn"l 24, 1865.

•




«ommonfutalth	of	itassatbasdts.



SEcm."l'ARY,8 DEPABTKENT,  April 10,   1866.

To the Honorable  &nateatid House of Representatives :

In accordance with an A.ct approved April 24th, 1865, "to obtain the Industrial Statistics of the Commonwealth," a  copy of which accompanies this communication, I have the honor to submit an abstract of tfle returns made  to this Department, by the Aldermen and  Selectmen  of tho  various  cities and towns of this Commonwealth in conformity thereto, touching their Tarious branches  of industry.
This being the fourth decennial report of this nature author­ ized and published by this Commonwealth, it cannot fail upon comparison with preceding reports, to strike the most casual observer, how rapid has been the progress which tbe State has made within the before-mentioned period in the development of our industrial resources.
The first report, published in 1838, exhibited an annual  amount of industrial products of eighty-six millions of dollars. In 1845 it had increased to one hundred and twenty-four millions. In 1855 it reached the sum of two hundred and ninety-five millions ; and is now augmented to five hundred and seventeen millions of dollars.
Thus the last decade exhibits an increase of seventy-two per cent. ; while the population during tho same period increased only three per cent.
xxil	SECRETARY'S  LETTER.

This result has been arrived at within a. period during which the country has been subjected to the strain  of a. distressing war, with a. large proportion of our industrial classes changed from producers to consumers.
Although the increase of per cent. from 1845 to 1855, as shown in their respective reports, was one hundred and thirty­ eight per cent., and that of population in the same period was thirty-four per cent., still the ratio of comparative increase will be in favor of the last decade. And we must further  bear  in mind that the basis for such comparisons has been increasing in accuracy as the schedules for returns have been perfected, as many of the values in the abstract of \855, though much more accurate than .either of its predecessors, contained many esti­ mates  rather  than  actual "returns/'
.A.s values of the same articles embraced in these returns vary essentially in different localities, according to their nearness to, or remoteness from markets, this will in some measure account for seeming discrepancies ; though in some instances the differ­ ence in judgment will be apparent. While  strict  reliance  cannot, therefore, be placed on the returns which make these tables, I am persuaded that the average of values affixed by those making the returns, is rather below than above the actual amount, so that in calculations for which they may be used they will be more  than approximate.
I apprehend there is more ambiguity and less reliability attaching to the returns of the number  of  "Farms,  acres  of  . land improved, unimproved and unimprovable, &c.," than per­ tains to any other branch of industry embraced in these  returns.
The idea entertained by the committee who framed the law for obtaining these statistics, was evidently to include those only who were technically "Farmers." In other words, those whose main business was that of agriculture. .A.nd  in most cases the Selectmen confined their returns to those who culti­ vated   " ten   acres  and  upwards ."    This  was  uniformly the
SECRETARY'S  LETTER.	xxiii

minimum adopted by this Department, in reply to the many inquiries from those having the collection of these statistics in charge, as to "what should constitute a farm." Yet in some instances smaller areas appear to have been returned.
But as the value of farms, lands and buildings, for obvious reasons, has been excluded from the Summary and Recapitula­ tion of values, these inequalities will ·not ·affect the  results  of this  tabulation.
Fractional parts of values or quantities have not been used, except where amounts have exceeded fifty one-hundredths, when  a whole number has been expressed, unless as applied to  some  few articles, the production  of  which  is extremely  limited.
The interrogatories in the schedule for returns seemed to cover nearly every branch of industry likely to be followed to any extent in the several towns ; and yet the city of Boston alone returned over five millions of dollars under the bead of "articles  not  elsewhere enumerated."
The collection and collation of these statistics have necessa­ rily caused ·an extensive correspondence with the various town authorities, and I am happy to bear testimony to the commend­ able alacrity and evident desire in most cases, of those having the matter in charge, to"tarry into full effect the object of the law ; every town in the Commonwealth having made a return.
A comparison of some  of  the leading  pr<>4ucts, as exhibited in the  abstracts  of  1855,  and  1865,  is presented  on  the following
• page, which shows largely increased results, with the single exception of the whale fishery. The reduced number of bands employed in cotton, and the boot and shoe interest, which is quite marked, will very probably be accounted for by the intro­ duction of labor-saving machinery. No return of hands em­ ployed in clothing was made from Suffolk in 1855, which now employs 20,684, of whom 1,479 only are males.




P R O D U C TS .
I	188& .	18 & &.
I	Value.
I	Capital .
I	Band&	Value.
I	Capital.
I	Band&
Cotton,	$54,436,881	'38,293,986	23,678	t26,140,538	131,961,000	84,787
Horses, Oxen and Cows, .	.	.	.	19,154,790	-	-	-	15,423,521	-	-	-
·Hay,	.	.	13,195,274	-	-	-	8,702,817	-	-	-
-	
SECRETARY'S LE'ITER.	XXV

The aggregate amount of industrial products for the year ending May 1, 1865, surprising as it is, and exhibiting, as it does, a grand total of '517,240,613, being over a million and a half of dollars for each working day in the year, with a capital of tl74,499,950, and giving employment  to 271,421 persons
engaged in manufacturing, and 68,636 in agricultural pursuits, well illustrates the indomitable perseverance• of a people whose
natural productions have been said to be only  "Ice  and  Granite," and whose industry, united with intelligence, has not failed to win substantial triumphs over the disadvantages of soil and  climate.

Respectfully  submitted,

OLIVER WARNER,
&cntary of tM Oomm<mto«Jth.




























'



EWLWTHECA


STA T ISTIC A L	R ETU R N S
1'&011 TB&


SEVERAL CITIES AND  TOWNS

111 nm


€om mon bu alf h	of	Ul  assathn ufts,

AS TO FACTS EXISTING ON MAY 1, 1865, IN RELA.TION TO CERTAIN BRANCHES   OF  INDUSTRY.

Cap., denotes capital  Invested;   emp., pono111  emplo7ed;  m. emp., males emplo7ed;  t. emp.,
temalea emplo7ed;  m.,  manufacture;  m'1, manatacturee;  m'd,   manatactured,

BA RNSTA BLE COUNTY.

BARNSTABLE.

Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $1,600; Newspapers and Periodicals printed, (Barnstable Patriot,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value, $3,000 ; cap., $2,400 ; value of all other Print­ ing done, $400 ; m. emp., 3.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$300 ; Daguerreotypes and Photographs taken, 800; value, $1,000 ; cap., $900; m. emp., 2; f. emp., I.
Looking Glasses and Picture Frames, manufactories  of,  1; value  of
stock used, $200 ; articles m'd, 80; value, $240 ; cap., $200 ; hands
emp. for one month, I.
Mattresses, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; number made, 50; value, $400 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp. two months, 1; £ emp. two months, I.
Saddles, Harnessess and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; number of each m'd, 87 ; value, $1,170 ; value of stock used,  $550 ; cap.,
$700 ; hands emp., 3.
2	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
BARNSTABLE,	BARNSTABLE   Co.

Boats, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of materials used, $200 ; boats built, 4 ; value, $500 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Sail Lofts, 2 ; Sails made of Am. fabric, 19 ; value of fabric, $6,200 ;
value of sails, $7,000 ; Sails  made of for. fabric, 16; value of fabric,
$3,600 ; value of sails, $4,000; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 4.
Salt, establishments for m. of, 3; bush. m'd, 8,280 ; value, $1,640; bbls. of Epsom salts m'd., 29 ; ,·alue, $203; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp. five months each, 6.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; number of cars and wagons m'd, 1 each ; value, $4,110 ; Yalue of stock used, $2,000 ; cap.,$2,000 ; hands cmp. four months, 12.
:Master Builders, 12 ; Buildings erected, 24; value, $20,200; value of the materials used, $12,000;  hands  emp., 30.
Blacksmith Shope, 12; value of stock used, $2,000; value of work done,
$2,700; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 11.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $450; value of tin ware m'd, $800 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp. six months each, 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 806; Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd, 156; gross value of stock used, $1,100; value of boots and shoes m'd,
$2,226 ; cap., $800; m. emp, 3.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; .value of stock used, $150 ; value m'd, $400 ; cap., $150; hands emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 3; value. of stock used, $650; coffins made, 120; value, $1,220 ; cap., $875; hands emp. three months each, 8.
Ice for Market, establishments for the preservation of, 2 ; tons of ice preserved, 500 ;value, $900; cap.,$850 ;hands emp. one month each, 7. Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 3; tonnage, 210 ; quiutals of codfish taken, 1,988 ; value, $14,980 ; value of cod liver oil sold, $1,527; value of salt consumed  in the cod fisheries, $1,680 ; cap., $10,400  ;
hands emp., 20.
Shell Fish, bush. of taken, 1,500 ; value, $750 ; hands cmp. two months each, 60.
Alewives, bbls. of taken, 725 ; value, $3,250; hands emp. two months, 10, Coastwisc or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 90 ; tonnage, 8,860 ;
value, $386,400 ; hands emp., 540.
Shore .Fishery, boats engaged in, 60 ; cap., $9,000 ; bbls. of Fish taken, 1,500 ; value, $16,000 ; hands emp. four months each, 60.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords  of,  1,876 ;   value,
.$9,922 ; hands emp. two months each, 50.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS .	8
B.&.RNSTA.BLE Co.	B.illNSTA.BLE,

Farms,  202 ; acres, 13,928 ; vaJue,  including  Buildings,  $432,740 ;
acres improved, 5,169 ; persons emp., 245.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 8,754.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 831.
Woodland, acres, 10,36 ; value, $128,050.
Indian Com, acres, 394 ; bush., 10,624 ; value, $15,936.
Wheat, acres, 3; bush., 65; value,  $97.
Rye, acres, 117 ; bush., 1,328 ; value, $1,992.
Barley, acres, 41;  bush., 77 ; value,  $91. Oat.a, acres, 68 ; bush., 1,784 ; value, $1,300. Beans, acres, 1; bush.,  210;  value,  $420.
Potatoes, acres, 140 ; bush., 10,107 ; value, $5,053.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field crop,  acres, 211; bush.,  2,195 ;  value,
$1,097.
Carrots, acres, 5; bush., 657 ; value, $197.
Beets and other eeculent vegetables, acres, 31; bush., 225 ; value, $90.
Cranberries, acres, 126 ; bush., 1,247 ; value, $4,864.
English Mowing, acres, 609 ; tons of English Hay, 802; value, $12,030.
Wet Meadow  or  Swale  mown,  acres, 828 ;  tons  of wet meadow or
swale hay, 388 ; value, $2,028.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 1,507 ; tons of Salt Hay, 1,423 ; value, $8,538.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 890 • value of apples, $273 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 495 ; value of pears, $319 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $300.
Merwo   Sheep,  of   different  grades,  150 ;   all  other   kinds  of sheep,
336 ; gross value of allsheep, $2,851 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 150; value,
$315 ; lbs. of all other wool  produced,  1,088;  value, $626.	·
Horses, 36• ; value, $26,750 ; Oxen over four years old, 59 ; Steers under four years old, 110 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,800 ; Milch Cows, 580 ; Heifers, 166 ; value of cows and heifers, $29,440 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (48 in number,) $1,080 ; gal­ lons of Milk sold, 8,794 ; value, $1,758 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 10,850 ; value, $3,631; lbs. of Cheese, 200 ; value, $36.
Bee( dreMed, lbs., 168,600 ; value, $20,232.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 9,000 ; value, $1,080. Mu&ton, dressed, lbs., 8,525 ; value, $423. Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,600 ; value, $768.
$wine, 190 ; value,  $4,090 ; value  of Poultry  sold,  $1,500 ; mlue of
Eggs sold, $10,386 ; lbs. of Honey, 40 ; value, $20.
. .
STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
BREWSTER.	BARNSTABLE  Co.


BREWSTER.

Salt, establishments for the m. of, 12; bush. or 811,lt m'd, 50,000 ; value,
$25,000 ; cap., $8,846; hands emp., 12.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used,  $500; value of work done,
$1,500 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 2.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $300 ; value of tin ware m'd, $700 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 2.
Boots of  all kinds, pairs  m'd, 70 ; Shoes  of  all  kinds,  pairs   m'd,  500 ;
gross value of stock used, $570 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,850 ;
cap., $570 ; m. emp., 2.	•
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value or stock used, $300 ; coffins made, 30 ; value, $600 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 400 bble, ; value or the same, $500 ;
hands emp., 2.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 7 ; tonnage, 5,152 ; va.lue, $181,000 ; amount received for freight, gross, $150,000 ; hands emp., about 96.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 200 ; value,  $1,600;
cap., $200 ; hands emp., 4.
Farms, beside numerous Jiouse plots, 56; acres of Land, 1,680 ; value, including Buildings, $126,000 ;acres of land improved, 1,680 ; persons emp., 112.
Unimproved Land, acres, 3,401. Uniipprovable Land, acres, 2,000. Woodland, acres, 4,043 ; value, $40,430.
Indian Corn, acres, 168\ ; bush., 8,360 ; value, $5,040.
Wheat, acres, 10 ; bush., 150 ; value, $800. Rye, acres, 70 ; bush., 508 ; value, $756. Barley, acres, 45; bush., 675; value, $675. Oats, acres, 10 ; bush., 100;  value, $100.
Potatoes, acres, 97 ; bush., 970 ; va.lue, $625. Carrots, acres, 5 ; bush., 500 ; value, $150. Cranberries, acres, 136 ; bush., 1,860 ; value, $3,400.
English Mowing, acres, 167; tone of English Hay, 167 ; value, $3,340,
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 60 ; tone of wet meadow or swale hay, .90 ; value, $900.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 225; tone or salt hay, 225; value, $2,22T>. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, or shade, 1,577 ; value  of apples,
$290 ; P.ear-trees cultivated for their fruit, including those lately set,
.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	5

BARNSTABLE  Co.	CIIATBilC.

470 ; value of the pears, $170 ; all other trees cultivated for  their  fruit, 852 ; value of  the  fruit,  $55.
Horses, 125; value, $9,875 ; Oxen over four  years  old, 24 ; SteerB under four years old, 4 ; value of oxen and steers,  $1,680 ; ?4.ilch Cows, 178 ; Heifers,  86; value of cows  and  heifers, $10,860 ; Neat  Stock not embraced above,  160 Calves ; value, $1,600.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 22,500 ; value, $2,700. Pork, dressed, lbs., 50,000 ; value, $7,500. Veal, dressed, lbs., 4,000 ; value, $400.
Swine, 200 ; value,  $7,500; value of Poultry sold, $500 ; value of  Eggs
sold,  $8,750 ;   value  of   unenumerated   articles   of  Farm  Produce,
$1,000.


CHATHAM.
Sail Lofts, 2 ; Sails made of Am. fabric during the year, 48 ; value  of fabric, $6,000 ; value of sails, $8,200 ; Sails made  of for. fabric,  5 ; value of fabric, $1,255 ; value of sails, $1,525 ;  cap.,  $1,700 ;  hands emp., 8.
Clothing. establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $4,500 ; cap.; $2,500; m. emp., 2 ; f. P.mp., 2. Master Builders, 8 ; number of Buildings erected, 14 ; value, $15,650 ;
value of  materials used, $9,800 ; hands emp.,  14.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; value  of stock used,  $875 ; value  of  work done,
$1,200 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Tin Ware :Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock ueed, $800 ; value of tin ware m'd, $600 ; cap., tt;oo;  hands emp., 2.	. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 175 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 200 ; gross value of  stock used in the m. of  boots and shoes, $700 ; value of
boots and shoes m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $450 ; m. emp.,   8.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $445 ; number of casks m'd, 95d ; value, $1,185 ; cap., $850 ; hands emp., 8. Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1 ; value of stock used,   $300 ;  number  made,  45 ; value,  $550 ;  cap.,  $325 ; hands
emp., 1.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries,"Vessels emp. in, 39 ; tonnage, 2,659 ; bbls. of mackerel taken, 6,746 ; value, $93,835 ; qtls. of codfish taken, 25,861 ; value, $171,811; value of cod liver oil sold, $17,290 ; value of salt consumed, $27,780 ; cap., $104,150 ; hands emp., 381•

•
6	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
CHATHAH.	BARNSTABLE   Co.


Shell Fish, bush. taken, 5,000 ; value, $4,000; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 77.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon, bbls. taken, 1,000 ; value, $2,100; hands eeip., 20.
Lobsters taken, 90,000; value, $8,600; cap., $750; hands emp., 15.
Mackerel taken in weirs, 70,000; value, $8,150; cap., $1,100; hands emp., 20.
Menhaden, bbls. of taken, 2,500 ; value, $2,500 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp.,  8.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 17 ; tonnage, 902 ; value, $80,500; amount received for freight, $30,600 ; hands emp.,
47.  .
Farms, 11; acres, 575; value, including buildings, $25,500 ; acres improved, 450 ; persons emp., 14.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,500. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,500. Woodland, acres, 458;  value,  $10,179.
Indian Corn, acres, 77 ; bush., 1,925 ; value, $3,500. Rye, acres, 87; bush., 259 ; value, $518.
Barley, acres, 6; bush., 55 ; value, $60. Oats, acres, 12; bush;, 120; value, $115. Potatoes, acres, 11; bush., 800; value, $750.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5 ; bush., 750 ; value, $400. Cranberries, acres, 27 ; bush., 250 ; value, $750.
English  Mowing, acres, 277 ; tons of  English  Hay, 800 ; value,  $5,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 11; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  12 ; value, $120.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 200 ; tons of Salt tHay, 200; value, $1,800. Sheep, all kinds, 75; val., $250 ; lbs. of Wool produced,  200 ; value,
$150.
Horses, 152 ; value, $9,700 ; Oxen over four years old, 2 ; Steersunder four years old, 9 ; value of oxen and steers, $400 ; Milch Cows, 228; Heifers, 70; value of cows and heifers, $10,520; gallons of Milk sold, 16,500 ; value, $8,630; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,296 ; value, $2,383.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 20,000 ; value, $2,100. Pork, dressed, lbs., 49,500; value, $10,400. Veal, dressed, lbs., 8,750; value, $1,050.  .
Swine, 212 ; value, $7,300; value of Eggs sold, $3,652.20•




•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	7
BARNSTABLE   Co.	DENNIS,


DENNIS.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; number of each m'd, 50; value,  $1,600 ; value of stock  used,  $1,000 ; cap.,
$800 ; hands emp., 8.	•
Sail Lofts, 1; Sails made of for.  fabric,  25 ; value  of fabric,  $5,000 ;
value of sails, $6,500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Salt,  establishments   for   the   m.  of,   23;  bush.   m'd,   15,275 ;  value,
$9,682.50 ; cap., $10,100 ; hands emp., 23.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $60; number of wheels m'd, 10;  value, $100 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, .establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; lbs. of tallow candles made, 1,500 ; value, $300 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; lbs. of
hard soap m'd, 1,800 ; value,  $180 ; cap.,  $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Master  Builders,  7 ; number of buildings  erected,  6 ; value, $6,500 ;
value of materials used, $5,100 ; hands emp., 19.
Blacksmith Shops, 7 ; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of work done,
$2,600 ; cap., $1,350 ; hands emp., 7.
Tm'   W8.1l  Manufactories,   2 ; value  of  stock  used,  $280 ; value  of  tin
ware m'd, $575 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Shoes, pairs of all kinds  m'd,  252 ; gross. value of stock used, $100  ;
value of shoes m'd, $252 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp., 1.	.
Coffins and Burial Cases of allkinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $375 ; number inade, 112 ; value, $780 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 3.	·
Lamp Black, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value m'd, $1,600 ; value
of stock used, $600 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 4.	•
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels employed in, 48 ; tonnage, 2,996 ; bbls. of mackerel taken, 8,799 ; value, $123,148 ; qtls. of  codfish taken, 7,769 ; value, $53,825; value of cod liver oil sold, $3,036.65 ; value of  salt consumed,  $19,649 ; cap., $117,000 ; hands emp., 722.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 46,400 ; value, $544 ; h!1°ds emp.,
11.
Ba.ss, Mackerel, and other Fish, taken in nets and weirs, va1ue,   $6,100 ;
m. emp., 15.
Sword-fish  and  Blue-fish  taken,  bbls., 500 ;  va1ue, $4,000.
C-oastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 85 ; tonnage, 10,208; value, $401,400 ; amount received for freight, $411,600 ; hands emp., 44.5.
8	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
DENNIS.	BARNSTABLE  Co.


Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 407 ; value, $3,256 ; cap., $6,136 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 96 ; acree, 1,750; value, including Buildings,  $182,410;  acres of land improved in homesteads, &c., not considered as farms, 2,627 ; persons emp.;118.
Unimproyed Land, acres, 500. Unimprovable Land, acres, 500. Woodland, acres, 8,501; value, $35,010.
Indian Corn, acres, 222 ; bush., 5,497 ; value, $10,990. Wheat, acres, 6; bush., 68 ; value, $170.
Rye, acres, 59 ; bush., 791; value, $1,582. Barley, acres, 10; bush., 800 ; value, $400. Oats, acres, 15; bush., 800; value, $300.
Potatoes, acres, 414 ; bush., 7,700 ; value, $4,622.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 3 ; bush., 484 ; value, $242. Onions, acres, 1; bush., 20 ; value, $40.
Carrots, acres, 6f ; bush., 1,147; value, $574. Cabbage, acres, f ; value, $170.
Market Gardening, acres, 9!; value of products, $520.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 3 ; bush., 244 ; vnlue, $183. Tobacco, acres, l; lbs., 360; value, $90.	• Cranberries, acres, 194! ; bush., 2,849 ; value, $6,608.
English  Mowing,  acres, 285  ; tons of  English  Hay, 498 ; value,
$12.350.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 178 ;.tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 189 ; value, $2,835.	.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 60 ; tons of salt hay, 360 ; value, $4,520. Apple-trees  cultivated  for their  fruit, 586 ; value of apple.'!,  $198;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 278 ; value of pears, $140 ; number of all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 267 ; value of fruit, $105 ; value ·of Nuts or Berriea cultivated or gathered for market, $210.
Horses, 174 ; value, $10,885 ; Oxen over four years old, 53 ; Steers under foµr years old, 18 ; value of oxen and steers, $3,582 ; Milch Cows, 269 ; Heifers, 86; value of cows and heifers, $11,410 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, $410; gallons of Milk sold, 4,406 ; value, $881.20 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 3,086 ; value, $1,866.20.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 47,510 ; value, $3,701.20. Pork, dressed, lbs., 98,438 ; value, $19,687.60. Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,880 ; value, $988.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	9
BARNSTABLE  Co.	EASTHAM.

Swine, 47 ; value, $762 ; value of Poultry eold, $256.90 ; value of Eggs eold, $9,032.50 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $413.


EASTHAM.
Salt, establishments for the m.of, 9; bush. m'd, 4,575 ; value, $2,289; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 9.
BJacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $150; value of work done,
$300 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $632 ; hides tanned, 200 ; hides tanned and curried, 200 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $650 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 3.
Cod.fish, qtls. taken, 130 ; value, $650 ; value of cod liver oil sold, $100 ; • value of  salt consumed in the mackerel  and cod fisheries, $120 ;  cap.,
$1,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, 3,050 ; value, $2,440 ; cap.,$550 ; hands emp.,40. C-Oastwise or CllQJ'ing Trade, vessels  emp.  in,  1; tonnage,  63 ; value,
$4,000 ; amount received for freight, $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 20 ; value, $140 ; hands emp., 1.
Fa.nm, 48 ; acres, 9,980 ; value, including Buildings, $99,747 ; acres
of land improved, 2,280 ; pel"80ns emp., 96. Unimproved	d, acres,  1,180.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 4,945. Woodland,  acres,  930;   value, $8,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 295; bush., 4,879 ; value, $5,855.80. Rye, acres, 224 ; bush., 1,278; value, $1,538.60.
Potatoes, acres, 211; bush., 1,651 ; value, $990.60. Cranberries, acres, 2lf ; bush., 189 ; value, $568.50.
Eliglish Mowing, acres, 85 ; tons of Hay,.1071; value, $2,150.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 570 ; tons of salt Hay, 570 ; value, $3,420. Apple-trees  cultivated  for their  fruit,  952 ; value  of  apples, $130.
Sheep, 17 ; gross value, $85; lbs. of Wool produced, 55 ; value,  $38.
Hones, 117 ; value, $7,020 ; Steers under four years old, 44 ; value of oxen and steers, $880; Milch Cows, JJ,3 ; Heifers, 89 ; value of cows and heifers, $7,974 ; lbs.of  Butter sold, 611 ; value, $154.
Swine, 61 ; value, $915 ; value of Poultry sold, $128; value of Eggs eold,  $5,386;   value  of  unenumerated   articles  of  Fann Produce,
$2,000.
2


Digitized by Google
10	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
FA.LHOUTB.	BA.RNSTA.BLE   Co.


FALMOUTH.
Woollen Mills, 2 ; number of sets of Machinery, 3 ; lbs. of scoured wool consumed, 61,621; gross value of stock used, $54,000 ; yards of C888imere m'd, 35,000 ; value, $43,000; yards of Satinet m'd, 16,000 ; value, $16,000 ; lbs. of Yarn m'd, and not made into cloth, iI,000; value, $22,000; cap., $23,400;  m. emp., 19 ; f. emp., 8.
Salt, establishments for the m. o( 4 ; bush. m'd, 2,800 ; value, $2,800 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands ,mp., 4.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of  stock used, $2,000; hands emp., 4.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; hands emp., I.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, v888els engaged in, 18 ; tonnage, 288 ; value, $11,400; amount received for freight, $6,500 ; hands emp., 89. Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 2,724 ; u.lue,    $13,620.
Farms, 184 ; acres, 12,654 ; value, including Buildings, $473,888; acres of land improved, 7,571 ; persons emp., 146.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,715. Unimprovaple Land, acres, 868. Woodland, acres, 9,854 ; value, $121,457.
Indian Corn, acres, 264!; bush., 6,602 ; value, $9,908. Wheat, acres, 2t ; bush., 25 ; value,  $50.
Rye, acres, 52 ; bush., 470 ; value, $705. Barley, acres, 116l ; bush., 2,529 ; value, $3,798. Oats, acres, 28l ; bush., 736 ; value, $736.
Potatoes, acres, 621 ; bush., 4,646 ; value, $4,646.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 31f ; bush., 4,564; value, $2,282. Onions, acres, 1; bush., 156 ; value, $312.
Carrots, acres, 11; bush., 3,855 ; value, $1,006.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 3l ; bush., 480 ; value, $180. Cranberries, acres, 68!; bush., 857l; l"alue, $2,572.
English  Mowing,  acres,  809f ; tons  of  English  Hay,  898f ;  value,
$17,975.
Salt Marsh, acres mown, 419 ; tons of salt Hay, 889 ; value, $3,890. Apple-trees  cultivated  for their  fruit,  2,656 ; l"alue of apples,  $150 ;
Pear-trees  cultivated  for their  fniit, young, 840.	·    Sheep,  635 ;  value,  $1,905;  lbs. Wool  produced,  1,478;   value,  $1,478.
Horses, 226 ; value, $16,097 , Oxen over four years old, 79 ; Steers under four years old, 56 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,420 ; Milch Cows, 418; Heifers, 122 ; value of cows and heifers, $19,160; gallons of Milk sold, 2,114; value, $422 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,532 ; value, $1,659.60.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	11
BARNSTABLE  Co.	HARWICH,

Beef, dressed, lbs., 89,220; value, $8,922. Pork, dressed, lbe., 6,950 ; value, $1,042.50. Mutton, dressed, lbe., 1,650 ; value, $247.50. Vea.I, dressed, lbs., 8,800 ; value, $842.
Swine, 811 ; value, $18,995 ; value of Poultry sold, $500 ; value of Eggs sold,  $3,884.44.
Establishments  for  the  m.  of articles  not  elsewhere  enumerated,  r ;
description  and quantity  of articles  m'd, guano,  1,000 tons ; value,
$125,000; value of stock used,  $50,000; cap., $100,000 ;  m. emp.,
20.   '



HARWICH.

Dagoerreian and Photographic establishm,nts, 2 ; value of stock used,
$200 ; daguerreotypes  and photographs taken, 2,300 ; value, $800 ;
cap., $300 ; m. emp., 2.
Boats, establishments for the DL of, 1; '\"alue of materials used, $1,200;
number of boats built, 14 ; value, $2,100 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp.,
2.
Sail Lofts, 3 ; number of sails made of Am. fabric, 89 ; value of fabric,
$5,232 ; value of sails, $6,039 ; number of sails made of for. fabric, 89 ; value of fabric. $6,896 ; value of sails,. $7,413 ; cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 5.
Master Builders, 6 ; number of Buildings erected, 16 ; nlue,  $10,200 ;
value of materials used, $7,600 ; hands emp.,  12.
Blacksmith  Shope, 3; value  of stock  used,  $1,150 ; value  of  work done,
$2,400 ; cap., $300 ; bands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,344 ; Shoes, paire of all kinds m'd, 2,675 ; gross value of stock used in the m.of boots and shoes.  $8,891 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $11,800 ; cap., $1,655 ; m. emp.,  9 ; f. emp.,  2.
Coffins  and   Burial   Cases  of  all   kinds,  m. of,  1; value   of  stock  used,
$200 ; number of coffins made, 25; value, $300 ; cap., $100 ; hands
emp., 1.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 36;  tonnage,  2.779 ; bbls. of mackerel taken, 8,343; value, $117,685 ; qtls. of codfoih taken, 20,988 ; value, S142,798 ; value of cod liver oil sold, S13.282 ; value of  salt consumed, $21,290 ; cap., $141,000 ; hands crop.,  419.
Sbell Fish, bush. taken, 8,000 ; value,  $1,950  ; hands  em_p., 12.
12	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
HARWICH.	BARNSTABLE  Co.

Alewives, Shad, and · Salmon taken, bbls., 687; value, $787 ; bands emp., 6.   ·
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 86 ; tonnage, 2,843 ; value, $106,342 ; amount received for freight, $74,673; bands emp., 181.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 828 ; value, $1,968 ; bands emp., 12.
Farms, 14 ; acres, 490 ; value, including  Buildings,  $18,400; acres of
land  improved,  490 ; persons emp., 21.	·
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,064. Unimprovable Land, acres, 140. Woodland, acres, 1,428; value,  $85,000.
Indian  Corn, acres, 285 ; bush., 4,511;  value, $9,022.
Rye, acres, 172 ; bush., 1,464 ; value, $2,928.
Barley, acres, 2 ; bush., 25 ; value, $81.
Oats, acres, 3 ; bush., 68 ; value, $85.
Potatoes, acres, 124 ; bush., 5,560 ; value, $4,277.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 13 ; bush., 786 ; value, $393. Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 3 ; bush., 83 ; value, $88. Cranberries, acres, 209 ; bush., 4,751 ; value, $14,253.
English Mowing, acres, 101;  tons of English bay, 152 ; value,   $8,800.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 141 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  141; value,  $987.
Salt Marsh  mown, acres,  188 ;  tons of  salt hay, 207 ; value,  $2,070.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 472 ; value of apples, $150; Pear- trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit,  47 ; value  of pears,  $87 ; value of
.  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $275.
Sheep, 92 ; value, $506 ; lbs. Wool produced,  180 ; value,    $126.
Horses, 178 ; value, $12,155 ; Asses and Mules, 1; value, $15 ; Oxen over four years old, 2 ; Steers under four years old, 8 ; value of oxen and steers, $550 ; Milch Cows, 807 ; Heifers, 84 ; value of cows and heifers, $10,890 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (five Bulls,) $200.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 8,000 ; value, $960.
Swine,  810 ; value,  when  dressed,  $14,090 ; value  of  Poultry  sold,
$305 ;  value of  Eggs sold, $7,945.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF M.ASSACHUSETIS.	18
0BLEAN8,	BARNSTABLE Co.


ORLEANS.
Salt, establishments for the m. of, 15; bush. m'd, 4,740 ; value, $3,555 ; cap., $6,030 ; hands emp., 15.
Bailroad Cars, <4>aches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, 1;
number m'd, 8 wagons ; value, $1,000 ; value of stock used, $600 ; cap., $3.:>0 ; hands emp., 1.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of clothing m'd, $750 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 2.
Marble, and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock  used,  $1,050 ;  tombstones  m'd,  75 ; vulue,  $2,600 ; cap.,
$400 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 2 ; buildings erected, 2 ; value, $1,450 ; value of materials used, $1,100 ; hands emp., 5.
Blacksmith Shops. 2 ; value of stock used, $300 ; value of work done,
$600 ; cap.,$200 ; hands emp., 8.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $1'60 ; value m'd,
$400 ; cap., $200; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 70 ; Shoes, pairs  of  all kinds m'd, 24 ;  gross value of stock used, $300 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $521; cap.,  $100 ; m. emp., 1.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; casks m'd, 500 ; value, $500 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial  Cases  of  all  kinds,  I ; value  of  stock  used,  $250;
coffins made, 50; value, $450 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp.,    1.
Macterel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 4 ; tonnage, 307 ; bbls. mackerel taken, 2,000 ; value, $30,000 ; qtls. codfish taken, 1,350 ; value, $10,800 ; value of cod lil'er oil sold, $550 ; value of salt con- 8Ullled, $1,257 ; cap., $15,100 ; hands emp., 60.
Blue Fish, bbls. taken, 550 ; value, $5,500.
Shell Fish, bush.taken, 8,010 ; value, $8,010 ; cap., $560 ; hands emp., averaging thirty days, 112.
Firew9()<1 and Bark, cords prepared for market, 126 ; value, $1,134.
Farms, 77 ; acres, 5,576; value of same, including buildings, $113,112; acres of land improved, 4,865 ; persons emp., 85.
Unimproved Land, acres, 475. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,000.	. Woodland, acres, 258 ; value, $3,860.
Indian Corn, acres, 825 ; bush., 7,808 ; value, $11,821. Wheat, acres, 3; bush., 60 ; value, $120.
Rye, acres, 163; bush., 1,184 ; value, $2,072.
14	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
PROVINCETOWN.	BARNSTABLE Co.

Barley, acres, 41 ; bush., 670 ; value, $871. Oats, acres, 60 ; bush., 1,253; value, $940. Potatoes, acres, 21 ; bush., 2,108; value, $2,108.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field crop, acres, 7 ;  bush., 1,600;  value, $800.
Cranberries, acres, 38; bush., (crop a failure,) 345 ; vti,Iue, $1,035.
English Mowing, acres, 228 ; to!15 English hay, 317 ; value, $6,340.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 22 ; tons wet meadow or  swale  hay,  22;  value, $264.
Salt :Marsh mown, acres, 478 ; tons salt hay, 484 ; value, $4,840.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,860 ; value of apples, (crop a failure,) $1,000 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 211 ; value of the pears, $188 ; number of all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 50 ; value of the fruit, $10 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $78.
Sheep, 283 ; gross value, $1,274 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 896 ; value,
$896.	.
Horses, 173 ; value, $10,380 ; Steers under four years old, 115 ; value of oxen and steers, $2,300 ; Milch Cows, 257 ; Heifers, 110 ; value of cows  and  heifers,  $9,462 ;  gallons  of Milk  sold,  567 ; value,
$113.40 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 3,560 ; value, $1,424.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 82,634 ; value, $9,916.20. Pork, dressed, lbs., 42,136 ; value, $7,584.48. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 600 ; value,  $90.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 4,660 ; value, $466.
Swine, 37 ; value, $740 ; value of  Poultry sold,  $150 ; value of Eggs
sold, $12,598.	•


PROVINCETOWN.
Boats, establishments for the m. of, 3; value of  materials used,  $1,150 ;
boats built, 19 ; value, $1,725; cap., $1,400 ; hands emp., 3.
Mast and Spar Yards or Sheds, 2 ; value of materials used, $3,000; masts and spars m'd, 195 ; value, $5,050 ; cap., si,100 ; hands emp., 8.
Sail Lofts, 8; Sails made of Am. fabric, 150 ; value of fabric, $21,788 ;
value of  sails, $26,090 ; Sails made of for. fabric, 43 ; value of  fabric,
$6,625 ; value of  sails, $8,799 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp.,  16.
Salt, establishments for the m. of, 1; bush. m'd, 200; value, $125 ; cap.,
$150; hands emp.,L
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	15
BA.RN8TABLE   Co.	SANDWICH.

Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $8,000;  cap.,  $16,000 ; m. emp.,  5.; f. emp.,  18.
Master Builders, 6; Buildings erected, 8 ; nlue, $9,950 ; value of materials, s•,500 ; hands emp., 10.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,600 ; value of work done,
$5,000 ; cap., $3,350 ; hands emp., 6.
Blocks and Pumps, eiitablishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$1,300 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $2,100 ; cap., $1,000 ; haods emp., 3.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,500 ; casks m'd, 800 ; value, $9,500 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1 ; value of stock used, $1,042 ; coffins made, 58 ; value, $800 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 1.
Whale Fishery, vessels emp. in, 28 ; tonnage, 2,862 ; gallons Sperm Oil imported, 96,197 ; value, $189,104 ; gallons of Whale Oil imported 91,571; value,  $122,913;  lbs. Whalebone  imported,  15,090 ; value,
$6,337 ; cap., $286,262 ; hands emp., 498.
Mackerel nnd Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 105; tonnage, 9,438; bbls. mackerel taken 19,395 ; value, $296,681; qtls. codfish taken, 65,411 ; value, $566,264 ; value of cod liver oil sold, $42,465 ; value of salt consumed, $75,000 ; cap., $418,806 ; hands el1lp., 1,260.
Cod Livers, 1,845 gallons ; cost, $2,100; medicated value, $3,450.
Shell Fish, bush. Lobsters taken, 4,000 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 100.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 20; tonnage, 2,022 ; value, $181,460 ; amount receh·ed for freight, $205,000 ; hands emp.,
180.	.
Cranberries, acres, 110 ; bush., 400 ; value, $1,200.
English Mowing, acres, 50 ; tons English hay, 50 ; value, $1,500. Salt Mh mown, acres, 184 ; tons salt bay, 306 ; vulue,  $2,448.
Horses, 68; value, $5,712 ; . Milch Cows, 40 ; value of cows and heifers, SJ ,200.


SANDWICH.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,150 ; tons  m'd,  25;  value,  $3,750 ; cap.,
$6,500 ; hands emp., 8.
.,
16	STATISTICS OF THE .	[1865.
SANDWICH.	BARNSTABLE   Co.

Axes, Hatchets, and other Edge Tools, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $900 ; dozens of axes, hatchets, and other edge tools m'd, 200 ; value, $2,000; cap., $1,100 ; hands emp., 8.
Tack and Brad Manufactoriee, 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ; tons of tacks and brads m'd, 75; value, $25,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 18.
Glass Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $311,000; flint and col'd glass m'd, 27,000 packages; value, $640,000 ; cap., $527,000 ; hands emp., 590.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; num­ ber of each m'd, 60 ; value, $1,900 ; value of stock used, $1,000; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 1; Yalue of stock used, $5,500 ; value m'd, $8,580 ; cap., $3,000; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 3.
Marble, and other kinds of stone, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,288; 62,072 lamp plynths, 88 gravestones m'd; value,·$ ,469 ; cap., $2,200; hands emp., 6.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 11; value, $12,600; value of materials used, $8,600; hands emp., 7.
Blacksmith Shops, 5; value of stock used, $1,070 ; value of work done,
$2,950; cap., $750; hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2; value or stock used, $500; value of tin ware m'd, $800 ; cap., $1,700;  hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. grain ground, 18,000; value, $32,130;  bb1e.
flour m'd, 8,780 ; value, $37,800 ; cap., $4,000; hands emp., 4. Boots, pairs of all kinds  m'd, 24 ; Shoes, pairs  of all kinds m'd, 86;
gross value of stock used, $262 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, 428 ; cap., $450;  m. emp., 3.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; casks m'd, 27,000; value, $12,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 7. Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, establishments for the m. of, 2 ;
value  of  stock  used, $625;  coffins  made,  90; value,  $1,015;  cap.,
$450 ; hands emp., 2.
Gas, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value m'd, $1,200 ; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tone preserved, 100 ; value, $225; cap., $160;  hands  emp., 1.
Sholl Fish, bush. taken, 750 ; value, $600 ; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 6. Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, (650 bbls. alewives,) 325,000; value,
$487 ; hands emp., 2.





Digitized by Goog•le
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSEITS.	17
BARNSTABLE    COUNTY.	SANDWICH.


Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 15 ; tonnage, 1,424 ; value, $74,400 ; amount received for freight, 48,470 ; hands emp., 55. Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 90,000 staves ; value, $1,000 ; value of all other Lumber, $900 ; cap., $900 ;
hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,787; value, $15,328.15; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 139, from two to three months in winter. Fanns, 242 ; acres, 8,210 ; value of same, including Buildings, $338,-
800 ; acres of land improved, 11,053 ; persons emp., 239. Unimproved Land, acres, 500.
Unimprovable Land, creeks, ponds, roads, and beach, acres, 6,850. Woodland, acres, 33,597 ; value,  $166,725.
Indian Corn, acres, 341 ; bush., 9,915; value, $14,874.50. Wheat, acres, 27; bush., 137 ; value, $274.
Rye, acres, 138; bush., 1,4.U ; value, $2,161.50. Barley, acres, 38 ; bush., 380 ; value, $470.
Oats, acres, 25 ; bush., 500 ; value, $375.
Millet, acres, 4.
Potatoes, acres, 87 ; bush., 8,172 ; value, $5,720.40.
Turnips cultivated a.s a field crop, acres, 4 ; bush., 1,655 ; value, $827.50.
Onions, acres, 1; bush., 25 ; value, $50.
Carrots, acres, 81; bush., 560 ; value,   $280.
Market Gardening, acres, 3 ; value of products, $300. Cranberries, acres, 70 ; bush., 580 ; value, $1,740.
English Mowing, acres, 983 ; tons English hay, 950 ; value, $19,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 150 ;  tons  of  wet  meadow or swale hay,  154 ;  value, $1,540.
Salt Marsh mon, acres, 900 ; tons of salt hay, 737 ; value, $4,422. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,003; value of apples, $1,435 ;
Pear-trees  cultivated  for their  fruit,  1,699 ; value of pears,  $482 ;
number of all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,683 ; value  of  fruit, $877 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for mar­ ket,  $125.
Sheep,  227 ; gross  value,  $908 ;  lbs.  Wool  produced,  628 ; value,
$311.50.
Horses, 255 ; value, $17,595 ; Oxen over four years old, 108 ; Steers under four years old, 118; value of oxen and steers, $10,537 ; filch Cows, 574 ; Heifers, 178 ; value of cows and_ heifers, $20,928 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (five Bulls,) $175 ; gallons Milk sold, 16,580; value, $3,316 ; lbs. Butter sold, 7,632; value, $2,671.20 ; lba. Cheese, 520; value, $93.60.
I
18	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
TRURO.	BARNSTABLE  Co.

Beef, dressed, lbe., 181,125 ; value, $18,112.50. Pork, dressed, 91,388; value, $15,535.11.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 9,410 ; value, $1,411.50. Veal, dressed, lbs., 6,885 ; value, $688.50.
Swine, 117 ; value, $2,250; value  of  Poultry  sold,  $260 ; value  of' Eggs sold, $3,064 ; lbs. of Honey, 90 ; value, $45 ; value of unenu- merated articles of  fa.rm produce, $159.	·



TRURO.

Sail Lofts, 1; Sails made of Am. fabric, 18 ; value of fabric, $5,769.55; value of sails, $6,876 ; Sails made of for. fabric,  1; value  of fabric,
$197.50; value of sails, $229 ; cap., $350 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,200; value of clothing m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $700 ; m. emp., 1 ; £ emp., 3. Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of work done,
$200 ; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 1.
Tin Ware manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $86 ; value of tin ware m'd, $75 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 140 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 175; gross  value  of stock  used,  $735 ; value  of boots  and  shoes  m'd,
$1,102.50; cap., $425 ; m. emp., 5.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, -manufactories of, 1; value of' stock used, $160 ; coffins made, 18 ; value, $200 ; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 1.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 10 ; tonnage, old measure, 703; bbls. mackerel taken, 7,955 ; value, $118,125; qtls. codfish taken, 650; value, $4,550; value of cod liver oil sold,  $150; value of salt consumed, $12,420 ; cap., $53,280 ; hands emp., 150.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 8 ; tonnage, old measure, 415 ; value, $18,700 ; amount received for freight, $13,500; hands emp., 11.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 150 ; value, $1,050; cap., $625 ; hands emp., 4.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,666. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 840.
Woodland and Brush Land, acres, 2,647 ; value, $30,440.50. Indian Corn, acres, 144; bush , 2,170 ; value, $4,340.
Rye, acres, 116 ; bush., 577 ; value, $1,269.40.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF M.ASSACHUSETI'S.	19
BARNSTABLE  Co.	WELLFLEET.

Barley, acres, 8; bush., 21 ; value, $29.40. Potatoes, acres, 40 ; bush., 2,082 ; value, $2,082.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  a; bush.,  2,213; value,
$1,549.10.
Carrots, acres, 4 ; bush., 780 ; value, $472.80. Cabbage, acres, 8 ; value, $400.
Market Gardening, acres, 24 ; value of  products,  $2,176.
Beets and other eseulent vegetables, acres, 4 ; bush., 700 ; value, $850. Cranberries,  acres, 12;  bush., 140 ; value, $560.
English  Mowing, acres, 65; tons English hay, 50 ; value,  $1,200.
Wet Meadow, Swale, or Dike Meadow mown, acres, 65 ; tons wet meadow, swale, or dike meadow hay, 65 ; value, $910.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 825 ; tons	t hay, 350 ; value, $2,800.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 583 ; value of apples, $225 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $HO.
Honies, 93 ; value, $4,748 ; Oxen over four years old, 2 ; value, $110 ; Milch Cows, 249 ; Heifers, 48 ; value of cows and heifers, $8,190 ;
gallons Milk sold, 82,850 ; value, $8,212.50 ; lbs. Butter sold, 1,032 ; value, $412.80.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 11,181 ; value, $1,006.29. Pork, dressed, lbs., 22,500 ; value, $2,250.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,570 ; value, $141.80.
Swine, 90; value, $1,125; value of Poultry sold, $150 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,840.
Beans, bush., 200 ; value, $600.
Dog Fish Livr Oil, bbls., 90 ; value, $3,160.


WELLFLEET.

Sail Lot\s, 3; Sails made of Am. fabric, 82 ; value of fabric, $26,000 ; value of sails, $27,400 ; cap., $700; hands emp., 8.
Salt, establishments for the m. of, 5 ; bush. of salt m'd, 700 ; value,
$535 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 5.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $30,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $40,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 80.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of work done
$2,475 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 8.
Tin Ware Mannfactories, 2; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of tin. ware.m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $1,700 ; hands emp., 2•


•
20	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
WELLFLEET,	BARNSTABLE  Co.

Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock ueed, $600 ; hides tanned, 200 ; hides tanned and curried, 200 ; value of leather tanned and curried, $1,200.
Blocks and Pumps, establ.iiuvents for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used,
$700 ; valae of blocks and  pumps  m'd, $1,500 ; cap.,  $500 ; hands
emp., 8.	·
Coffins  and  Burial  Cases of all  kinds,  m.  of, 2 ; value  of stock  used,
$500 ; coffiDs made, 50 ; value, $500; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for preee"ation of, 1; tone ice preee"ed, 50 ; value, $400 ; cap., $20.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, veeeele emp. in, 68 ; tonnage, 4,004 ; bbls.
mackerel taken, 26,900 ; value, $385,000 ; qtle. codfish taken, 1,200 ; value, $7,200 ; value of cod liver oil sold, $400 ; value of salt con­ sumed, $38,20 ; cap., $13,200 ; hands emp., 740.
Shell Fish, bueh. taken, 8,400 ; value, $2,500 ; cap., $640 ; hands emp.,
21.	.
Alewives, Sb.ad,  and Salmon  taken, 80,000  alewives ; value,  $300;
hands emp., 8.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, veeeels engaged in, 5 ; tonnage, 780 ; value, $49,200 ; amount received for freight, $50,000; hands emp., 30. Firewood and Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords,  150 ; value,  $1,050 ;
hands emp., 10.
Farms, 12 ; acres, 880 ; value, including Buildings, $16,285; acres of land improved, 380 ; persons emp., 15.
Unimproved Land, acres, 6,210. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,800. Woodland, acres, 568 ; value, $10,204.
Indian Corn, acres, 67 ; bush., 1,005 ; value, $1,809. Rye, acres, 46 ; bush., 822 ; value, $579.
Potatoes, acres, a; bush., 1,850 ; value, $1,850.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5 ; bush., 700; value, $400. Beets and other eeculent vegetables, acres, 1; bush., 800 ; value, $150. Cranberries, acres, 22; bush., 55 ; value, $165.
English Mowing, acres, 26; tone English hay, 89 ; value, $780.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 66 ; tone of  wet meadow or   swale
hay, 66 ; value, $792.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 446 ; tons salt hay, 505 ; value, $5,050.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,675 ; value of the apples, $500 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 288 ; value of the pears, $150. Horses,  188 ; value,  $6,650 ; Steers under  four  years  old,  2 ; value,
$50 ; Milch  Cows,  141;  Heifers,  23;  value  of  cows   and  heifers,


•
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	21

BARNSTABLE   Co.	YARMOUTH.

$5,395; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, Bulls, $100 ; gallons Milk sold, 5,540 ; value, $1,329 ; lbs. Butter sold, 1,750 ; value, $525.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 16,000 ; value, $1,600.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 16,900 ; value, $3,040. Veal, dressed, 4,600 ; value, $460.
Swine 82; value, $1,230 ; value of Eggs sold, $5,425.


YARMOUTH.

·Printing and Newspaper Establisbments, 1 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; newspapers and geriodieals printed, (Yarmouth Register,) 1, issued weekly ; gross value, $2,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; value of all other print­ ing done, $1,000 ; cap. invested in printing, $800 ; m. emp., 5.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments,  1; value of stock used,
$50 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 300 ; value, $75 ; cap.,
$50 ; m. emp., 1.
Salt, establishments for the m. o 19 ; bosh. of salt m'd, 13,780 ; value,
$6,890 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 10 ; value, $15,000 ; value of materials used, $8,000 ; hands emp., 16.
Blacksmith Shope, 8; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of work done,
$8,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 8.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $700 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $1,600; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 150; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 150; gross value of stock used, $400 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,300; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 2.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 1; tonnage, 70 ; bbls. mackerel taken, 250 ; value, $3,000 ; qtls. codfish taken, 500 ; value,
$4,000 ; value of cod liver oil sold, $200 ; value of salt consumed,
$300 ; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 12.
Alewives, $had, and Salmon taken, 400 bbls. alewives; value, $1,600 ; hands emp., 10.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 21; tonnage, 1,456 ; value, $25,233 ; amount received for freight, $33,000; hands emp., 70; tonnage of vessels owned with Boston, New York, and other ship owners, 2,931; value, $108,160.
Firewood and Bark prepared'for market, cords, 250; value, $1,550.
22	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
YARMOUTH,	BA.RNBTA.BLE Co.

Farms, 50; acres, 2,200; value, including Buildings, $75,000 ; acres of land improved, 1,200 ; persons emp., 58.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 5,000.
Woodland, acres, 4,500; value, $52,185.
Indian Corn, acres, 120;  bush., 2,583; value,  $3,028.
Rye, acres, 66 ; bush., 660 ; value, $825.
Oats, acres, 10; bush.; 250; value, $150. Potatoes, acres, 55; bush., 1,875; value, $1,850. Onions, bush., 15; value, $30.
Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 500; value, $125.
Cranberries, acres, 40; bush., 300 ; value, $600.
English Mowing, acres, 130 ; toll8 English  hay, 234'; value,  $.4,680.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 50 ; to141 of wet meadow or swale hay, 50; value, $500.	·
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 95; tons salt hay, 175 ; value, $1,750.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 150 ; value of apples, $50 ; Pear-­ trees cultivated for their fruit, 550; value of pears, $150.
Sheep, 17; gross value, $71 ; lbs. Wool produced, 68; value, $34.
Horses, 160 ; value, $12,000 ; Oxen over four years old, 16 ; Steers under four years old, 10; value of oxen and steers, $1,200; Milch Cows, 193; Heifers, 30 ; value of cows and heifers, $7,205; gallons Milk sold, 4,275; value, $855; lbs.Butter sold, 3,000 ; value, $1,050.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 150,000 ; value, $22,500. Pork, dressed, lbs., 28,000 ; value, $5,600. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,500 ; value, $250.
Swine, 225; value, $3,375; value of Poultry  sold,  $100;  value  of Eggs  sold, $1,700.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	28

BBRKss1a1: Co.	ADAMS.



B E R K S H I R E  C O U N T Y .


ADAMS.

Cotton Mills, 11 ; spindles, 45,072; cotton consumed, 1,865,681 lbe. ; gross value of stock used, $1,841,518; yards cloth m'd, (print and sheeting goods,) 5,465,314 ; gross value, $994,805 ; lbs. of yarn m'd, and not  made  into  cloth,  791,400 ; gross value,  $1,171,000 ; cap.,
$850,(¥)0 ; m. emp., 882 ; f. emp., 429.
Calico and MoU8861ine de Laine, establishments for printing, 2 ; yards of calico printed, 8,925,000 ; value before printing, $1,366,750 ; value after printing, $1,559,250 ; cap.,  $270,000 ; m.  emp.,  150 ; f. emp.,  21.
Woollen Mills, 6 ; sets machinery, 44 ; lbs. scoured wool consumed, 1,428,596 ; gross value of stock used $1,574,370 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 1,488,783; value, $1,526,769 ; yards of satinet m'd, 833,000 ; value, $288,000 ; cap., $831,000 ; m. emp., 440 ; f. emp., 392.
Balmoral Skirts, establishments for the  m.  of,  4 ; value  of  stock used,
$95,046 ; skirts m'd, 53,610 ; va.lbe, $142,266 ; cap., $22,000 ; m.
emp., 70 ; f. emp., 49.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; tons m'd, 140 ; value, $16,800 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for the m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $10,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $25,000 ; cap., $18,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Paper Manufactories, 2 ; tons of stock consumed, 456 ; value, $155,040; reams of writing paper m'd, 53,617 ; value, $315,164 ; cap.,$75,000 ; m. emp., 43 ; £ emp., 80.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; newspapers printed, (Adams News & Transcript,) 1, issued weekly ; value, $3,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; value  of all other printing done,
$3,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 2.
Daguerreia.n and Photographic Establishments, 3 ; value of stock used,
$2,040 ;  daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,  11,540 ;  value,
$8,210 ; cap., $2,700 ; m. emp., 5; f. emp., 3.
Looking-glasses  and  Picture  Frames,  1; value  of  st<>ek  used,  $500 ;
art.iclee m'd, 800 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
24	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
ADA.MS,	BERKSHIRE  Co.

Mattresses of all kinds and materials,  m. of, 1 ; value  of stock   used,
$275 ; mattresses made, hair, 10 ; value, $375 ; cap., $75 ; m. emp., 1. Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; harnesses  m'd, 290 ; value,  $7,800 ; value  of st.ock used, $4,150 ;
cap., $2,700 ; hands emp., 7.
Upholstery Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; value of upholstery m'd, $700 ; cap., $150; m. emp., 1.
Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, estabfo1hments for the m. of, 2 ; buggies  m'd,  11; value,  $1,540 ; value  of  st.ock  used,  $690; cap.,
$1,574 ; hands emp., 2.
Confectionery, establishments  for the m. of, 1 ; value of st.ock  used,
$2,500 ; lbs.  of confectionery  made,  6,000 ; value,  $3,00 ; cap.,
$500 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 3.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $14,700 ;
value of clothing m'd, $22,300 ; cap.,$7,500 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 16. Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of st.ock used, $1,700 ; value of grave, tomb, and building stone m'd,
$11,975; cap., $4,000 ; bands emp., 7.
Tallow Candles, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock  used,
$1,767 ; lbs. of candles made, 23,456 ; value, $2,912 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 8.
Soap, establishments for the m. of,.1; value of stock used, $1,190; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 297 ; value, $1,327 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 2,000 ; value, $200 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 2.	.
Master Builders, 23; Buildings erected, 70; value, $109,800 ; value of materials used, $70,548 ; hands emp. six months, 97.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of work done,
$10,300 ; cap., $2,400 ; hands emp., 9.
Cabinet Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,400 ; value of chairs
and cabinet ware m'd, $4,900 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 3 ; value of stock used,  $5,600 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $8,600 ; cap,, $7,700 ; hands emp., 10.
Flouring Mills, 8; bush. grain ground, 62,000 ; value, $106,808 ; bbls. of flour m'd, 100; value, $1,200; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $35,356 ; hides tanned, 2,300 ; hides tanned and curried, 5,116; value of leather tanned and curried, $60,500 ; cap., $53,555 ; hands emp., 19.
Boot and Shoe Establi!!hments, 2 ; pairs of boots of all kinds m'd, 7,248 ; pairs of shoes of all kinds m'd, 105,860 ; gross  value  of stock used,
$124,379 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $190,560 ; cap., $45,690 ;
m. emp., 100 ; £ emp., 45.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	25
BEusmas Co.	

Pumps, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $25 ; value of pumps m'd, $150 ; cap., $150; hands emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial  Cases  of  all kinds,  m. of,  8; value  of  stock  used,
$1,080 ; coffins made, 220 ; value, $2,675; cap., $1,350 ; hands emp., 2.
Planing Mills and establishments for the m.  of  Sashes,  Doors, and Blinds, 1; value of etock used, $1,500 ; value of sashes, doors, and blinds m'd, $8,000 ; value of all other work done, $300 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands  emp., 8.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $4,850 ;
value of wooden boxes made, $9,200 ; cap., $2,825; m. emp·., 7.
Gas, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of gas m'd, $10,415 ; cap., $66,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 2 ; tons of ice pre• served, 110 ; value, $565 ; cap., $740; hands emp., 2.
Bakeries, 1; value ofstock used, $6,000; value of bread m'd, $10,000 ; cap., $8,500 ; ha.nda emp., 4.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 2 ; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $700 ; value of Marble quarried and prepared for market, $900 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 4.
Lime   Kilns,  2 ; casks  of  lime   m'd,   10,500 ;  value,   $21,000 ; cap.,
$5,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Saw Mills,  5 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared   for  market,   610,000;  vue,
$9,680; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 1,000  bunches  laths,  6,000  bunches  staves; value,  $2,100 ; cap.,
$3,000; hands emp., 10.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,126; value, $14,490 ; cap., $9,000 ; hands emp., 24.
Farms, 184 ; acres, 21,898; value, including Buildings, $822,800 ; acres
improved, 7,827; persons emp., 407. Unimproved Land, acres, 4,078.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 9,998. Woodland, acres, 5,458 ; value,  $138,922.
Indian Corn, acres, 805; bush., 10,601 ; value, $15,897. Wheat, acres, 16; bush., 268 ; value, $526.
Rye, acres, 18 ; bush., 867 ; value, $550. Barley, acres, 70; bush., 1,901 ; value, $2,468. Buckwheat, acres, 17 ; bush., 289 ; value, $276. Oats. acres, 252 ; bush., 7,740 ; value, $7,740.
HerdsgraM Seed, acres, l ; bush., 2i ; value, $8.
Potatoes, acres, 206 ; bush., j9,775 ; value,  $14,887.
'
26	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
ALFORD.	BERKSHIRE Co.

Onions, acres, 2 ; bush., 600 ;·value, $600. Carrots, acres, 6l ; bush., 2,625 ; value, $1,818. Cabbage, acres, 10!; value, $8,215.
Winter Squash, acres, 8nr ; value, $620,
Beets and other estiulent vegetables, acres, lOf ; bush., 4,451 ;  value,
$2,101.
Flax, acres, l ; lbs., 100 ; value, $17 ; bush. flaxseed, 2 ; value, $6. Tobacco, acres, 11; lbs., 16,650 ; value, $8,880.
English  Mowing,  acres, 8,411 ;  tons of  English  hay,  8,575 ; value,
$71,500.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 956 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 729 ; value, $7,290.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,820 ; value of apples, $4,224 ; Pear-trees cultivated  for  their  fruit,  2,296 ; value  of pears,  $584 ;
all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,882 ; value of fruit, $612 ; value of Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $50.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 2,674 ; number of all other kinds of sheep, 191 ; gross value, $10,810 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 9,987 ; value,
$9,847 ; lbs. of other wool produced, 726 ; value, $562.
Horses, 440 ; value, $59,485 ; Oxen over four years old, 64 ; Steers under four years old, 98 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,925 ; Milch Cows, 1,285; Heifers, 113 ; value of cows and heifers, $56,577 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, 40 Bulls, $800 ; gallons of Milk sold, 11,030 ; value, $2,703; lbs. of Butter sold, 21,378 ; value,
$8,551 ; lbs. of Cheese, 242,380 ; value, $44,064.
.Beef, dressed, lbs., 99,480 ; value, $33,184. Pork, dressed, lbs., 119,888; value, $16,789. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 25,560 ; value, $2,587. Veal, dressed, lbs., 22,800 ; value, $2,288.
Swine, 247 ; value, $4,226 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,194 ; value of Eggs sold, $953 ; tbs. of Honey, $805; value, $287 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 33 ; value, $16.
Cloth m. in the family, yards, 28 ; value, $28.
Acid works, 1; value of acid, iron liquor, and charooal, $6,000 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 8.


ALFORD.

Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush.of grain  ground,  1,600;  value,  $2,000 ; cap.,
$2,000 ; hands emp., 2.	•
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	27
Bzax:smRE  Co.	ALFORD.

Stone and Marble Quarries, 2 ; value of marble quarried and prepared for market, $2,600 ; cap., $2,100 ; hands emp., 4.
Sa:w Mills, 2 ; feet of  Lumber prepared  for market, 50,000 ; value, $800  ;
Shingles prepared for market, 200,000 ; value, $600 ; cap., $3,500 ; hands emp., 3.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords,  8,679 ; value, $30,376.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 4,000 ; value, $400.
Cool and Ore Beds, 1; value of mineral, coal, and iron, or other ore and mineral substances mined, $1,200 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Farms, 62 ; acres, 6,997 ; value, including Buildings, $203,868 ;,acres
of land improved, 4,571; persons emp., 133. Unimproved Land, acres, 1,152.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 179.
Woodland, acres, 1,095;  value, $26,125.
Indian Corn, acres, 220 ; bush., 5,955 ; value, $8,932. Rye, acres,  100  ; bush., 873;  value, $1,309.
Barley, acres, 5 ; bush., 80 ; value, $140. Buck.wheat, acres, 107 ; bush., 1,684 ; value, $1,684. OatB, acres, 267 ; bush., 4,260 ; value, $4,260.
Potatoes, acres, 38; bush., 4,100 ; value, $1,640.
Flax,acres,2f ; lbs., 1,300 ; value, $60 ;bush. of flaxseed, 141; value, $42. Hope, acres, 17 ; lbs., 4,654 ; value, $1,843.
Tobacco, acres, 5 ; lbs., 4,600; value, $690.
English Mowing, acres, 1,400 ; tons of English hay, 866 ; value, $17,320.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 82 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
bay, 24 ; vale, $360.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,181 ; value of apples, $1,386 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 268 ; value of pears, $70 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 875; value of fruit,  $40 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $77.
Merino Sheep, of  different grades, 817 ; all other kinds  of  sheep,  245 ;
value of all sheep, $3,717 ; lbs. Merino Wool, 5,957 ; value, $5,068;
lbs. of all other wool produced, 1,098 ; value, $854.
Hones, 144 ; value, $14,070; Oxen over four years old, 14 ; Steers under four years old, 8; value of oxen and. steers, $1,900 ; Milch Cows, 177 ; Heifers, 44 ; value ofws and heifers, $9,074 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 8,879 ; value, $3,442 ; lbs. of Cheese, 554 ; value, $106.
Beef; dressed, lbs., 11,921 ; value,  $866.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 86,686 ; value, $5,495.
Swine, 57 ; value, $1,018; value of Poultry sold, $285 ; value of Eggs
sold,  $609;  lbs. of  Honey,  192;  value, $48.

•
28	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
BECKET.	BERKSHIRE  Co.


BECKET.

Paper llanufactoriai, 1; tons of stock consumed, 400; value, $64,000; tons of printing paper m'd, 20 ; value, $8,000 ; tons of all other kinds of paper m'd, 230 ; value, $92,000 ; cap., $30,000 ; m. emp., 18; £ emp., 9.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 1; number of each  m'd,  12 ; value,  $360 ; value  of stock  used,  $240 ;  cap.,
$100 ; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used,  $800 ; value of work done,
$1,500 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 2.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $4,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. grain ground,  12,863; value,  $18,600 ; bbls. of  flour m'd, 3,199 ; value, $19,541 ; cap., $3,500;  hands  emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying establishments, 1; value of stock used, $250,000; hides tanned, 35,000 ; hides tanned and curried, 85,000 ; value of leather tanned and curried, $325,000 ; cap.,$75,000 ; bands emp., 75. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 99 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50; gross value of stock used, $225 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $885;
cap., $425 ; m. emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 5 ;  feet of  Lumber  prepared   for  market, 2,000,000 ; value,
$19,250 ; cap., $13,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,517 ; value, $9,568 ;
cap , $2,700 ; hands emp., 5.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 12,500; value, $1,875; cap., Sl,500 ; band!rnmp., 1.
Farms,  147 ; acres, 18,718; value, including Buildings, $180,000 ; acres
of land improved, 8,978 ; persons emp., 198. Unimproved Land, acres, 9,740.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 5,000.
Woodland, acres, 2,317 ; value, $75,000.
Indian Com, acres, 29!; bush., 1,159 ; value, $1,459.
Barley, acres, 4!; bush., 85 ; value, $85.
Buckwheat, acres, 21 ; bush., 845; value, $256.
Oats, acres, «; bush., 711 ; value, $800.
Potatoes, acres, 122 ; bush., 13,48\ ; value, $6,742.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5!; bush., 1,930 ; value,  $386.
Carrots, acres, i ; bush .,280 ; value, $70.
Cabhno"ll, acres,  1; value,  $40.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, l; bush., 200; value, $67•

•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	29
B11:aKSHIRE  Co.	CHESHIRE.

English  Mowing,  acres, 8,273 ; tons of  English  hay,  2,363 ;  value,
$4.5,«5.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 401 ; tons of  wet  meadow  or swale hay, 296;  value,  $2,368.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,119 ; value of apples, $1,657. Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 220 ; all other killds of sheep, 1,049 ;
gross value of all sheep,  $5,000 ; lbs. of Merino  Wool,  866; value,
$585 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 4,500 ; value, $2,250.
Horees, 224 ; vale, $17,920 ; Oxen over four yea.re old, 159 ; Steers under four years old, 288 ; value of oxen and steers, $18,585 ; Milch Cows, 475 ; Heifers, 198; value of cows and heifers, $17,904 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, 13 Bulls, $325 ; gallons of Milk BOid,  1,590 ;  value,  $213 ;  lbs.  of   Butter  sold,  19,583;     value,
$6,854.05 ; lbs. of Cheese, 15,340;  value, $2,801.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 60,500 ; value, $4,285. Pork, dressed, lbs., 89,677 ; value, $5,951. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 8,773; value, $710. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,485 ; value, $1,988.
Swine, 88 ; value, $1,056 ; value of Pigs sold, $305 ; value of Poultry sold, $175 ; value of Eggs sold, $117 ; lbs.  of Honey,  600 ;  value,
$150 ; Maple Sugar, lb&, 18,295 ; value, $3,298 ; Cider, bbls., 165 ; value, $495.
Cloth m'd in the family,	el, yards,  154 ; value,  $231.



CHESIIlRE.
C,otton Mills, 1; spindles, ',000 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 200,000 ; gross value of stock used, $145,600 ; yards of cloth m'd, 1,248,000 ; gross value, $187,200 ; cap., $60,000 ; m. emp., 25; £ emp., 41.
Pig Iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $50,000 ; toDll of pig iron m'd, 1,000 ; value, $80,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 20. Glass Manufactories, 1; value of stock need, $15,000 ; window  glass m'd, boxes,  (50 feet to box,)  6,000 ; value,   $18,000 ; cap.,  $10,000    ;
hands emp., 30.
Tanning and Currying establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $75,000 ; Hides tanned and cunied, 9,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $100,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; handa emp., 25.
Sand Barrels, establishments fur m. of; 1; value of stock need, $4,000 ; barrels m'd, 20,000 ; value, $6,000; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 5•

•
80	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
CHBSBIRE.	BERKSHIRE    Co.

Cheese  Boxes,  establishments  for  the  m.  of,  2 ; value of  stock used,
$700 ; value of wooden boxes made, $1,400; cap., $1,750 ; m. emp., 3. Lime Kilns,  1; casks  of lime  m'd, 900 ; value,  $1,600 ; cap., $400 ;
hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,000,000 ; value,
$15,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket,  10,000   feet  laths,  60,000  sets of staves ; value,  $6,550 ; cap.
$18,000 ; hands emp., 38.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, 1,140 co firewood, 550 cords bark ; value, $8,960 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 30.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 170,000 ; value,  $27,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; bands
emp., 30.
Sand Beds, 2 ; value of glaee sand, $30,000 ; value of ground sand for polishing, $2,000 ; cap., $85,000 ; bands emp., 52.
Farms, 87 ; acres, 10,684 ; value, including Buildings, $186,155; acres of land improved, 7,981; persoDB emp., 200.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,803. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,141. Woodland, acres, 2,839 ; value, $71,995.
Indian Corn, acres, 159 ; bush., 4,960 ; value, $7,986. Wheat, acres, 3 ; bush., 52 ; value, $104.
Rye, acres, 22 ; bush., 398 ; value, $686.80. Barley, acres, 45 ; bush., 1,310 ; value, $2,096. Buckwheat, acres, 11; bush., 300 ; value, $300. Oats, acres, 181 ; bush., 5,865 ; value, $5,865. Potatoes, acres, 114 ; bush., 17,345 ; value, $8,672. Hops, acres, 32 ; lbs., 1,520 ; value, $386• .
Tobacco, acres, 7 ; lbs., 11,400 ; value, $1,818.
English   Mowing,   acres,   2,862 ;  tone  of   English   bay,  2,442; value,
$48,840.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 310 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 292 ; value, $4,380.	•
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,517 ; value, $1,005.
Sheep, 480 ; value, $2,880 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,920 ; value, $1,728. Horses, 201; value, $20,100 ; Oxen over four years old,  56 ; Steers, under four years old, 30 ; value of oxen and steers, $9,720 ; }I.filch Cows, 1,029 ; Heifers, 74 ; value of cows and heifers,  $43,010 ;  value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (29 Yearlings, 12 Bulls, 4 Two-· year olds,) $855 ; 1bs. of Butter sold, 7,600 ; value, $3,040 ; lbs. of Cheese, (not made in cheese factory,) 181,000 ; value,  $27,165 ; lbs. of Maple Sugar m'd, $15,000 ; value, $3,000•

•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	81
BEBKSBIBE   Co.	CLARKSBURG,

Beef; dressed, lbs., 98,000 ; value, $7,840. Pork, dressed, lbs., 1,600 ; value, $240. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 8,200 ; value, $320. Vea.I, dressed, lbs., 8,500 ; value, $850.
Cheese Factories, 1; lbs. of cheese m'd, 80,000 ; value, $16,000 ; m.
emp., 1; £ emp., 2.
Swine, 111; value, $1,870 ; lbs. of Honey, 480 ; Talue, $129.


CLARKSBURG.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of Machinery, 2 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ swned, 50,000 ; gross value of stock used, $65,000 ; yards of Cassi­ mere m'd, 60,000 ; value, $70,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 30,000 ; value, $80,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 27 ; £ emp., 11.
Master Builders, 1 ; Buildings erected, 2 ; value, $3,000 ; value of materials used, $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $75 ; value of work done,
$150.
Powder Mills, 8; value of stock used, $12,000 ; lbs. of powder m'd, 285,000 ; value, $86,000 ; cap., $4,500 ; hands emp., 7.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 100,000 ; value, $600 ; cap., $190 ; hands
emp., 5.	·
Boxee, establishments for the m. o( 1; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of wooden boxes made, $8,500; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of Lwnber prepared for market, 850,000 ; value,
$4,800 ; Laths prepared  for  market, 50,000 ; value,  $300 ; cap.,
$2,500 ; hands emp., 11.
Grist Mills, 2 ; bush. Com ground, 1,500 ; bush. Oats ground, about  J OO ; value, $125; hands emp., 2.
Wool Carding Mill, 1; sets Machines, 2 ; lbs. of Wool carded,  8,000 ; value,  $180 ; hands  emp., 1.
Cloth m'd in the family, linen and woollen, yards, 150 ; value, $182.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market,  cords,  775;  value,  $2,100 ; cap., $1,500;  hands  emp., 5.
Farms, 81; acres, 7,8911; value, including Buildings, $126,228 ; acres of  land improved, 1,474i ; persons emp., 65.
Unimproved  Land,  acres,  6,417  •
Unimprovable Land, acres, 650. Woodland, acres, 447 ; value, $8,448.
Indian Com, acres, 291;  bush., 831; value, $1,245.50.
32	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.

DALTON,	BERKSHIRE  Co.

Wheat, acres, 8; bush., 41 ; value, $82. Rye, acres, 2f ; bush., 54 ; value, $7,750.
Barley, acres, 101; bush., 855 ; value, $523. Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 20; value, $20. Oats, acres, 25  ; bush., 640 ; value, $640.
Potatoes, acres, 47 ; bush., 5,850 ; value, $2,918. Turnips, bush., 7 ; value, $3.
Onions, bush., 25 ; value, $25.
English Mowing, acres, 694; tons of English bay, 681; value, $12,620. Apple-trees   cultivated   for  their  fruit,  2,231;  value   of  apples,  $573;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 188; value of pears,  $3; value  of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $150.
:Meribo Sheep, 80; all other kinds of sheep, 41 ; gross value, $605 ; lbs. of l\Ierino Wool, 280; value, $168; lbs. of all other wool produced, 164 ; value, $82.
Horses, 88; value, $7,025; Oxen over four years old, 16; Steers under four years old, 48 ; value of oxen and steers, $2,275 ; Milch Cows, 164; Heifers, 51; value of cows and heifers, $7,364; gallonsof Milk sold, 230 ; value, $46 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 4,100; value, $1,517; lbs. of Cheese, 500; value, $8.5.50.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 14,125;  value, $1,412.50. Pork, dressed, lbs., 14,747;  value, $1,622.17.
:Mutton, dressed, lbs., 450 ; value, $67.50. Veal, dressed, lbs., 568 ; value, $29.76.
Swine, 33 ; value, $404; value of Poultry sold, $175 ; value of Eggs sold, $154;  lbs. of  Honey, 50; value,  $15 ; value of Beans,  $150.


DALTON.
Woollen :Mills, 1; eets of 1\Iachinery, 1; lbs, of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 6,500 ; gross value of stock used, $6,500 ; yards of Satinet m'd,11,372; value, $7,760.40; cap.,$17,000; m. emp., 15 ; f. emp.,10. Balmoral Skirts, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$10,400 ; skirts m'd, 4,000 ; value, $12,000 ; cap., $5,000; m. emp.,8. Paper l\Ianufactories, 6 ; tons of stock consumed, 940 ; value, $242,680 ; reams of writing paper m'd, 107,600 ; value, $2·75,625; all other kinds
of paper m'd, 300 tons ; value, $262,500 ; cap., $191,000 ; m. emp., 95 ; f. emp., 85.
Blacksmith Shops, 1 ; value of stock used, $400 ; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $1,500; bands emp., 2.
'
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	88
BERKSHIBB  Co.	DALTON.

Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $82,000 ;
Hides tanned and curried, 5,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried,
$50,000 ; cap., $16,000 ; hands emp., 19.
Boots, pairs of  all kinds  m'd,  130; gross  value  of  stock  used,    $410 ;
value of  boots and shoes m'd,  $820 ; m. emp.,  1.
Saw Mills, 9 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  635,000 ;  value,
$8,990 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 6.5,000 laths, 90,000 shingles ; value, $790 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., average,  6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market,  4,965  cords  wood,  572  cords
bark ; value, $25,404 ; hands emp., 14.
Farms, 84 ; acres, 7,557 ; value, including Buildings, $199,510 ; acres of land improved, 7,513 ; persons emp., 100.
Unimproved Land, acres, 44. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 20. Woodland, acres, 5,020 ; value, $83,813.
Indian  Corn, acres, 65 ; bush., 2,350 ; value,  $2,350.
Rye, acres, 14 ; bush., 238 ; value, $238. · Barley, acres, 1 ; bush., 24 ; value, $24. Buckwheat, acres, 6; bush., 86 ; value, $86. Oats, acres, 88 ; bush., 1,880 ; value, $1,128. Beans, white, acres, 3 ; bush., 102 ; value, $292.
Potatoes, acres, 100 ; bush., 13,705 ; value, $6,196.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, l ; bush., 50 ; value, $25.
Carrots, acres, It ; bush., 881;  value,  $396.
Tobacco, acres, 5f ; lbs., 8,000 ; value, $1,500.
English   Mowing,   acre.". ,   2,163 ;  tons   of  English   hay,  1,732 ;  value,
$84,640.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 42 ; tons of  wet meadow or    swale
hay, 87 ; value, $370.
Sheep,  2,000 ; gross  value,  $10,000 ; lbs.  of  Wool  produced,   9,067;
value, $5,646.
Horses, 155 ; value, $15,778 ; Oxen over four years old, 26; Steers under four years old, 39; value of oxen and 8teers, $3,727 ; Milch Cows, 267 ; Heifers, 78 ; value of cows and heifers, $14,230 ; gallons of Milk sold, 2,000 ; value, $120 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,290 ; value,
$2,916 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,765 ; value, $376.	•
Bee dressed, Ilk-., 74,027 ; value, $9,859. Pork, dressed, Ilk-., 48,073 ; value, $6,461. Mutton, dres8ed, lbs., 3,694 ; value, $420. Veal, dreeeed, lbs., 6,198 ; value, $708.
6
•
84	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
EGREMONT.	BERKSHIRE   Co.

Swine, 95 ; value, $1,176; value of Poultryl!old, $291; value of Eggs sold,·$155 ; lbs. of Maple Sugar, 970 ; value, $164 : gallons of Maple Syrup, 244; value, $488.


EGREMONT.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; hamesses m'd, 9; value, $270 ; value of stock used, $117 ; cap., $200; hands emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, 1;
number of each m'd, 7 sleighs, 38 carriages ; value, $10,000 ; value of stock used, $4,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Carriage Ades, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; axles m'd, 400 sets ; value, $8,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $900 ; value of work done,
$3,880 ; cap., $480 ; hands emp., 5.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; chairs and settees made, 2,500; value, $1,500 ; cap.,$3,000; m. emp., 5; £ emp., 1.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. of grain ground, 1,500 ; value, $150 ; bbls. of
flour m'd, 10; value, $80; cap., $18,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Boots, pairs of all  kinds  m'd,  60 ; gross  value of  stock  used,  $860 ;
value of boots and shoes m'd, $540 ; cap., $800; m. emp., 1.
Saw   Mills,  3;·feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  250,000;   value,
$7,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood and  Bark  prepared  for market,  cords, 830 ; value, $2,948;
hands emp., 5.
Charcoal m'd, bush.,27,200 ; value, $3,277 ; cap.,$1,593; hands emp., 3.
Farms, 93 ; acres, 10,833 ; value, including Buildings, $368,322 ; acres of land improved, 7,137 ; persons emp., 61.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,383. Unimprovable Land, acres, 873. Woodland, acres, 1,440; value, $72,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 460 ; bush., 13,141; value, $24,967.90.
Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 10; value, $20.
Rye, acres, 847; bush., 3,86.1; value, 6,335.90.
Barley, acres, 4 ; bush., 92 ; value, $138.
Buckwheat, acres, 109 ; bush., 1,612 ; value, $2,015.
1865.]	INDUS'.I'RY OF }U.88:ACHUSETI'S.
BERKSHIRE   Co.	FLORIDA,

Oats, acres, 552 ; bush., 11,888 ; value, $11,B88. Herdsgrass Seed,.acres, 7i; bush., 28; value, $115. Potatoes, acres, 66; bush., 8,043; value, $4,021.50.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5 ; bush., 547 ; value, $186.75.
Carrots, acres, 1i; bush., 255 ; value, $102.
Flax, acres, 2 ; lbe., 275; value, $68.75.
Hops, acres, 36 ; lbs., 11,970 ; value, $4,788.
Tobacco, acres, 18; lbs., 22,236; value, $2,779.50.
Sorghum, acres, l ; gallons of Syrup, 16 ; value, $16.
English   Mowing,   acres,  1,741;   tons   of   Euglish  hay,  1,443; value,
$28,860.
Wet Meadow  or Swale mowu, acres, 91;  tons  of  wet meadow or  swale
hay, 89 ; value, $1,835.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,370 ; value of apples, $2,033.40 ; Peartrees cultivated for their fruit, 143; value of pears,  $54 ; all  other trees cultivated for their ·fruit, 43 ; value of fruit, $45.
Merino Sheep, of  difte' reut grades, ·429 ;  all other  kinds  of  sheep,  849 ;
gross value of all sheep, $6,390 ; lbs.of Merino Wool, 1,991; value,
$1,991;  lbs. of  all other wool produced,  2,753;  value, $2,064.75.
Horses, 238 ; value, $17,850; Oxen over four years  old,  54  ; Steers under four years old, 14; value of oxen aud steers, $5,600 ; Milch Cows, 426 ; Heifers, 55; value of cows aud heifers, $14,155 ; Neat tock  oot embraced  above, one, two aud three  year  olds,  80 ; value,
$1,500 ; gallons of Milk sold, 100 ; value,  $20 ; lbs. of  Butter sold,
25,750;  value, $10,300;  lbs. of  Cheese, 225;  value, $33.75.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 49,493; value, $3,959.44. Pork, dressed, lbs., 82,806; value, $12,420.91. Calves sold, 333 ; value, $2,997.
Swine, 267 ; value; $4,005; value of Poultry sold, $647.50 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,531.50 ; lbs. of Houey, 32 ; value, $8 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 44 ; value, $22.
Cloth m'd in the family, 11 yards wool plaid ; value, $11.


FLORIDA.
Master Builders, 4 ; number of Buildings erected, 20 ; value, t;t0,000 ; value of materials used, $8,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Blacbmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of work doue,
$6,500 ; hands emp., 16.
86	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
FLORIDA,	BERKSHIRE   Co.

Boots of all kinds, pairs m'd, 100 ; Shoes of all kinds, pairs m'd, 75 ; gross value of stock used, $250 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $750 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Palm Leaf Hats made, 8,500 ; value, $375 ; f. emp., 8.
Planing Mille and establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 1; value of work done, $1,000 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1,
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, 205,000 ; value,
$1,640; Laths  prepared  for  market, 100,000 ; value,  $500 ; cap.,
$1,600 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 800 ; value, $2,400 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Farms,  143;  acres  of  Land,  13,102 ;  value,  including  Buildings,   •
$92,950 ; acres of land improved, .5,600 ; persons emp., 200. Unimproved Land, acres, 5,615.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,472. Woodland, acres, 7,215 ; value, $50,505.
Indian Corn, acres, 43 ; bush., 1,161; value, $1,742.
Wheat, acres, 2i ; bush., 88 ; value, $104. Rye, acres, 1i ; bosh., 19 ; value, $38.
Barley, acres, It ; bush., 18; value, $40. Buckwheat, acres, 81; bush., 1,116; value, $1,125. Oats, acres, 71!; bush., 1,859 ; value, $1,487.
Herdsgrase Seed, acres, 1 ; bush., 600 ; value, $600. Potatoes, acres, 172 ; bush., 12,298 ; value,   $4,099. .
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 7 ; bush., 1,400; value, $560. Carrots, acres, 2i; bush., 753 ; value,  $602.
Cabbage, acres, lf ; value, $400.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2i; bush., 500 ; value, $300. Flax, acres, ll ; lbs., 350 ; value, $90; bush. flaxseed, 10 ; value, $40•
.;English  Mowing,  acres, 1,892;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,423 ;  value,
$21,345.
Tet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 153; tons of wet meadow or ewale hay, 78 ; value, $546.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,170 ; value of apples, $551 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 27 ; value of pears,  $20 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 123; value of fruit,  $75 ; Yalue of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $80.
Merino Sheep, of d!frerent grades, 125 ; all other kinds of sheep, 882 ;
gross value of all sheep, $2,866.50 ; lbs.of Merino Wool, 375 ; value,
;$225.; lbs. of all other wool produced, 2,460 ; value, $1,230.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	87
BEa11:sa1RE  Co.	GREAT  BARRINGTON.
Horses, 128; value, $11,520; Oxen over four years old, 58 ; Steers under four years old, 198 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,485 ; Milch Cows, 288; Heifers, 119 ; value of cows and heifers,  $11,715 ; Neal Stock not embraced above, 54 Colts ; value, $8,240 ; gallons of Milk sold, 600 ; value, $151.20 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 12,990 ; value,
$4,871; lbs.of Cheese, 8,412 ; value, $1,181.
Beef; dressed, lbs., 58,600 ; value, $3,752. Pork, dressed, lbs., 25,780 ; value, $3,867. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 543; value, $48.87. Veal, dressed, lbs.,  1,178;  value, $117.30.
Swine, 67 ; value, $1,256.25; Talue of Poultry sold, $103.75 ; value of
Eggs sold,  $153.25;  lbs. of  Honey, 375;  Talue, $140 ; lbs. of Bees­
wax,  43;   value,  $15 ;  value  of   unenumerated  articles  of  Farm
Produce,  (16,580 lbs. of  Maple  Sugar,) $7,487.
Cloth m'd in  the  family,  wool,  flannel  and  kersey,  yards,  563; value,
$568.


GREAT  BARRINGTON.	.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 8,072 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 205,000 ; gross value of stock used, $250,800 ; lbs. of Yam m'd and not made into cloth, 174,250 ; gross Talue of same, $275,000 ; cap. $50,000 ; m, emp., 88 ; f. emp., 28.
Woollen Mills, 1; number of seta of Machinery, 14; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 500,000; gross value of stock used, $700,000; yards of Cassimere m'd, 750,000; value, $900,000; cap., $200,000; m. emp., 140 ; f. emp., 126.
Pig Iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $54,182 ; tons of pig iron m'd, 1,566 ; value, $101,790; cap. $75,000 ; hands emp., 90. Paper Manufactories, 1 ; tons of stock consumed, 450; value $125,000 ; reams of writing paper m'd, 70,000; value, $247,090; cap. $84,000;
m. emp. 85 ; £ emp. 75.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; Newspapers and Periodicals printed, (Berkshire Courier,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value, $1,800 ; cap., $1,600; value of all other Prinl- ing done, $500 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp. 1.	•
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$2,200 ; Daguerreotypes  and  Photographs  taken,  14,840 ;  value,
$4,232 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 5.
38	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
GREAT   BARRINGTON.	BEaKsBtRE Co.


Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; number of harnesses m'd, 12 ; value, $800 ; value of stock used, $500; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Cordage Manufactories,  1; value of stock used, $250 ; cordage· m'd,
lbe., 1,000; value, $450 ; cap., $300 ; bands emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments  for  the m. of, 2 ; number of wagons  m'd,  7 ; value,
$740 ; value of stock used, $380 ; cap.,$380 ; hands emp., 3.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $500; wheels m'd, 500 ; value, $1,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $6,702 ; value of  clothing m'd, $9,950 ; cap., $2,500; m. emp., 5; £ emp., 10.
Master Builders, 3 ; Buildings erected, 9 ; value, $14,800 ; value of materials used, $7,500 ; hands emp., 11,
Blacksmith Shops, 6 ; value of stock used,  $900 ; value of work done,
$2,800 ; cap.,$505 ; hands emp., 7.	•
Arms, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $19; Sport­ ing Rifles m'd, 3 ; value,  $111; m. emp., 1.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; chairs ,and  settees  made,  3,000; value  of the  same, $5,000;  cap.,
$5,000; m. emp., 8.
Tin  Ware  Manufactories,  1; value  of  stock used, $1,000 ;  value   m'd,
$1,500 ; cap., $500; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying establishments, 1; value of stock used, $650 ; hides tanned, 150; hides tanned and curried, 20 ; value of Leather t.anned and cuiried, $120 ; cap., $200; hands emp., 1.
Boots,  pairs  of  all kinds m'd,  297 ;  Shoes,  pairs of  all kinds m'd, 57 ;
gross  value  of  stock  used,  $1,020 ;  value  of  boots  and  shoes m'd,
$1,505;  cap., $500;  m. emp., 5.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 230,000 ; value $2,070 ; cap. $1,300 ; hands emp., 6.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $50 ; casks
m'd, 100 ; value, $295 ; cap., $100; bands emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial  <Jaaes  of  all  kinds, 1; value of  stock used, $1,100;
coffins made, 181; value, $1,532 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 2. Planing  Mills  and  establishments  for  the  m. of Sashes,  Doors, and
Blind>',  2 ; value 8f work done, $600 ; cap. 3,000 ; hands   emp., 1.
Gas, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,180 ; value m'd, $1,500 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved, 300 ; value, $300 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	89
J3saumBB Co.	GREAT   BARRINGTON.

Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $6,   0 ; value of  Bread m'd,  $9,000;
cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 4.
Distilleries,  1; value  of   stock  used,  $4,000 ;  bbls.  Liquors  distilled,
200 ; value, $20,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 8.	,
Saw  Mills, 5; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  688,700; value,
$13,814;   Laths,   Clapboards,   Shingles,   and    Staves   prepared   for
market,  878,000 ;  value,  $1,954 ;  all  other  lumber,  $160"; cap.,
$16,300 ; hands emp., 18.
Firewood and Bark, cords prepared  for market, 8,868; value,  $15,852 ;
value of Railroad Ties, $160 ; cap., $5,200 ; hands emp., 21.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 77,562 ; value, $10,470 ; hands emp., 16.
Farms,  244;  acres,  24,928;  value,  including   buildings, $1,186,150;
acres of land improved, 6,400 ; persons emp., 854.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 9,677.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 5,092.
Woodland, vres, 8,852 ; value, $178,604.
Indian Corn, acres, 766 ; bush., 19,182 ; value, $28,698.
Wheat,  acres,  4f ; bush.,  60 ; value, $120.
•	Rye, acres, 558; bush., 6,859 ; value, $10,288.
Barley, acres, 16 ; bush., 808 ; value, $465. Buckwheat, acres, 126; bush., 1,822 ; value, $1,822. Oats, acres, 743 ; bush., 14,612 ; value, $13,150.
Herdsgrass Seed, acres, f ; bush., 2 ; value, $14. Clover Seed, acres, 2 ; bush., 1 ; value, $20.
Potatoes, acres, 180 ; bush., 20,883; value, $8,858.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 12 ; bush., 3,205; value, $801.
Onions, acres, l ; bush.,  80 ; value,  $60. Carrots, acres, 2l ; bush., 1,178 ; value, $586. Cabbage, acres, l ; value, $15.
Market Gardening, acres, 3\ ; value, $400.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, t ; bush., 811; value, $155 ;
value of  Garden Seeds prepared for market, $4.
Flax,·acres, 11l ; lbe., 1,832 ; value, $306; bush., flaxseed, 50 ; value,
$108.
Hope, acres, 16 ; lbs., 5,162 ; value, $2,189.
Tobacco, acres, 20!; lbs., 20,305 ; value, $2,030.
English Mowing, acres, 3,810; tons English hay, 8,212;  value,  $64,240.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 180 ; tons wet meadow or swale bay,  189 ;  value, $1,890.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 11,034 ; value of apple $5,540 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,166 ; v:alue of the pears, $224 ;
40	STATISTICS  OF  THE		[1865. 11.&.Ncocx.		BERKSHIRE  Co.
number of all other trees cultivated for their  fruit, 2,115; value of the fruit, $577 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated•or gathered for market, including Grapes, $139.
Merino  Sheep,  1,480 ;  all  other  kinds  of  sheep,  782 ; gross value,
$10,866;  lbe.  Merino   Wool,   12,614 ; value,  $11,054;  lbe.  of  all
other wool produced, 3,237 ; value, $2,053.
Horses, 545 ; value, $63,990 ; Asses and Mules, 2 ; value, $850 ;  Oxen over four years old, 96 ; Steers under four years old, 65 ; value of oxen and steers, $13,270 ; Milch Cows, 787 ; Heifers, dry 2 years old, 96; value of cows and heifers, $43,694 ; value  of Neat  Stock not embraced above, (258 yearlings and Bulls,) $4,175 ; gallons of Milk sold, 6,195; value, $1,248; lbe. of  Butter  sold, 82,290; value,
$12,916; lbe. of Cheese, 3,816; value, $648. Beef; dressed, lbs., 188,195 ; value, $15,653.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 168,825 ; value, $25,248.
Mutton, dressed, lbe., 11,980 ; value, $1,424.	• Veal, dressed, lbe., 9,695 ; value, $842.
Swine, excluding young Pigs, 252 ; value, including young pigs, $5-,160;
value of Poultry sold, $785 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,038; Honey, lbs., 291; value, $73; Beeswax, lbs., 46 ; value, $22 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, Field Beans, $760.
Cloth m'd in the family, Woollen  Flannel, yards, 33  ; value, $46. Grist Mills, 2 ; bush. grain ground  last year, 18,000 ; value,  $19,500 ;
tons of Feed and Meal, 825; value, $21,125 ; cap. $4,000 ; hands emp. 2.
Establishments for the m. of articles not elsewhere enumerated, 8 ; description  and  quantity of  articles  m'd,  Cider,  bbls,  925; value,
$2,775 ; value of  stock used, $1,850 ; cap. $1,000 ; m. emp. 8.
Not included in the foregoing, there are in this town, about 292 acres of land, in lots varying in size from l of an acre to 4 acres, the estimated value of  which with  buildings thereon, is about  $581,650.


HANCOCK.

Woollen Mills, 8 ; sets of Machinery, 6 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 101,500 ; gross value of stock used, $145,000 ; yards of Broadcloth m'd, 200 ; value, $500 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 800 ; value,
$300 ;  yards  of  Flannel  or  Blanketing,   200 ;  value,  $200; cap.,
$45,000;  m. emp., 35 ; f. emp., 10. Balmoral Skirts m'd, 58,100 ; value, $174,800.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	41
BERKSHIRE   Co.	HANCOCK.

Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces - for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd,  30;  value, $3,000 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $11,900 ; Hides tanned and curried, 1,820 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $17,180 ; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 5.
St.raw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; st.raw bonnets m'd, 100 ; value, $300 ; cap., $50; m.  emp , 1; f. emp., 2.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, establishments for m. of, 1; value  of stock  used,  $250;  bonnets  m'd, 200 ; value,  $800 ; cap.,
$50 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 2.
Com and other Brooms m'd, doz., 600 ; value, $2,400 ; value of stock consumed, $1,400 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 3.
Fanns, 75; acres, 20,041 ; value, including Buildings, $335,775 ;. acres improved, 9,160; persons emp., 163.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,395. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,066. Woodland, acres, 6,420; value, $38,520.
Indian Corn, acres, 103; bush., 2,537 ; value, $2,537. Wheat, acres, 14 ; bush., 191; value, $286.50.
Rye, acres, 27 ; bush., 880 ; value, $380. Barley, acres, 25; bush., 438 ; value, $438.
Buckwheat, acres, 38; bush., 730 ; value, $547.50.
Oats, acres, 283; bush., 4,688 ; value, $2,344. Potatoes, acres, 74 ; bush., 8,225 ; value, $2,467.50.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, t ; bush., 580 ; value, $145. Onions, acres, i; bush., 400 ; value, $400.
Carrots, acres, t ; bush., 80 ; value, $20. ·
English  Mowing,   acres,   2,378;   tons   of   English   hay,  1,585 ; value,
$15,850.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 51; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 51; value,  $306.
Apple:.trees cultivated for their fruit, 825 ; value of apples, $400. Shtlep, all kinds, 3,664 ; value, $7,828 ; lbe. of Wool produced, 11,663;
value, $5,831.50.
Horses, 184 ; value, $11,040 ; Oxen over fuur years old, 52 ; value,
$.5,720; Milch Cows, 541 ; value, $13,525 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (267,) $4,005 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,045; value, S2,I l3.50 ; lbe. of Cheese, 63,400 ; value, $6,340.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 9,600 ; value, $76,800.
6
STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
HINSDALE.	BsaK&HIRE    Co.


Pork, dressed, lbs., 7,850; value, $735.
Swine, 83 ; value, $830 ; value of Poultry sold, $100 ; value of Eggs sold, $200.


HINSDALE.

Woollen Mills, 4 ; sets of Machinery, 17 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 305,228; gross value of stock used, $547,172 ; yards of Broadcloth m'd, cotton warp, 198,000 ; value, $382,625 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 877,000 ; value, $800,000 ; cap., $210,000 ; m. emp., 200 ;  f. emp., 135.
Balmoral Skirts, establishments for m.of, 1; value of stock used, $4,300 ; skirts m'd, 2,215; value, $6,937 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 4.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $620 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 7 ; value, $900 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp.,  1.
Shovels, Spades, Forks, and Hoes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,100 ; forks m'd, doz., 421; value, $4,227 ; cap., $1,790 ; hands emp., 5.,
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establi@hments for m. of, 1; number of harnesses m'd, 15 ; value,  $450 ; value  of stock used, $200; cap.,
$100 ; hands emp., I.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; number m'd, 11 waons, 1 sleigh, 5 wheelbarrows ; value, $590 ; value of stock used, $200 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 8; value of stock used, $2,300 ; value of work done,
$5,400 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Cabinet Mannfactories, 2 ; value of stock used,  $4,500 ; value of bed­
steads, cradles, &c., m'd, $8,035 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 13.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1 ; value  of stock  used,  $448 ; value of  tin
ware m'd, $859 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 3 ; bush. of Com ground, 6,000 ; value, $9,000 ; cap.,
$1,200 ; hands emp., 8.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; Hides tanned, 700 ; hides tanned and curried, 500 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $5,500 ; cap., $4,500 ; hands emp., 3.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 120; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 65 ; gross value of stock used in the m. of boots and shoes, $400 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $800 ; cap., $500; m. emp.,. 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETI'S.	43
BBRKSBIRE Co.	IIINSDA.LL

Saw Mills, 3; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for market,  475,000 ; value,
$7,125 ;  Shingles prepared  for  market,  10,000;  value,  $40 ; cap.,
$3,000 ; hands emp,, 4
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 3,251; value,   $16,000;
cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 23.
Farms, 87 ; acres, 12,295 ; value, including Buildings, $290,195 ; acres of land improved, 9,793; pel'IIOD8 emp;, 180.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,499. Unimprovable Land, acres, 497. Woodland, acres, 2,412 ; value, $64,770.
Indian Corn, acres, 52 ; bush., 1,500 ; valqe, $2,250.
Wheat, acres, 5; bush., 75 ; value, $200. Rye, acres, 41 ; bush., 55 ; value, $85. Barley, acres, 9; bush., ll29 ; value, $334.
Ruckwheat, acres, 8Q ; bush., 736 ; value, $786.
Oats, acres, 89 ; bush., 1,975 ; value, $1,975.
Potatoes, acres, 106 ; bush., 15,808 ; value, $7,900.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 3 ; bush., 600 ; value, $240.
Carrots, acres, f ; bush.,  400 ;  value,  $160.
English   Mowing,  acres, 1,949 ;  tons  of   English  hay, 1,745 ; value,
$84,550.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 549 ; tons of wet  meadow  or  swale hay, 624 ; value,  $6,240.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for the4' fruit, 2,099;  value of  apples, $306.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 4,016; groes value, $24,000 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 16,006 ; value,  $14,837.
Ho1'8e8, 160 ; value, $20,000 ; Oxen over four years old, 64 ; Steers under four years old, 282 ; value of oxen and steers, $13,600 ; Milch Cows, 385 ; Heifen, 134 ; value of cows and heifers, $14,789 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (6 Bulls,) $600 ; gallons of Milk sold,  5,000 ;  value,  $1,000 ; lbs.  of  Butter  sold,  13,949 ; value,
$5,554 ; lbs. of Cheese, 16,500 ; value, $2,850.
Beef. dressed, lbs., 37,425 ; value, $2,994, Pork, dressed, lbs., 33,890 ; value, $5,648. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,880 ; value, $130.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,890 ; value, $289.
Swine, 52 ; value, $700; value or" Poultry sold, $253 ; value of Eggs sold,  $470;  lbs.  of  Honey,  500 ;  value,   $150 ;  value  of Beeswax,
$1,564.
Cloth m'd in the family, 30 yards Flannel ; value, $45. Maple Sugar, lbs., 12,625; value, $2,525.



••	Digitized by Google
44	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
LANESBOROUGH.	BERKSHIRE  Co.


LANESBOROUGH.

Pig Iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $32,000 ; tons of pig iron m'd, 1,000; value, $50,000; cap., $100,000; hands emp., 100.
Glass Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $50,000 ; Window Glass m'd, feet, 1,200,000 ; value, $100,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., 130.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,100 ; value of work done,
$4,400 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 7.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. grain ground, 12,000 ; value, $15,000 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Boots,  pairs  of  all kinds  m'd,  53 ; Shoes, pairs of  all kinds m'd, 28 ;
gi,oss value  of  stock used  in the m.°of  boots  and shoes,  $550;  value
of  boots and shoes m'd, $500 ; cap.,  $1,000 ; m. emp.,  2.
Planing  Mills and  Establishments  for  m.  of  Sashes,  Doors and Blinds,
1; value  of  stock  used,  $600 ; value  of work  done,  $1,000 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp , 1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; Talue of stock used, $2,660 ; value of wooden boxes made, $6,134 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 4.	·    Lime •Kilns,  1; casks  of  lime  m'd,  300 ;  value,  $300 ;  cap.,  $400 ;
hands emp., 1.	'
Saw  Mills,  3; feet  of  Lumber  prepared   for  market,  293,428;   value,
$14,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Firewood and Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 400 ; value,  $1,600 ;
cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4.	·
Charcoal m'd, bush., 6,000 ; value, $360 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 4.
Coal and Ore Beds, 2 ; value of mineral, coal, and iron, or other ore and mineral substances mined, $5,000 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 2a.
Farms, 94 ; acres, 14,768 ; value, including Buildings, $417,900; acres of land improved, 10,038; persons emp.,  421.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,973. Unimprovable Land, acres, 757. Woodland,  acres, 1,370;  value, $27,400.
Indian Com, acres, 210 ; bush., 6,034 ; value, $6,034.
Wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 81 ; value,  $162. Rye, acres, 28 ; bush., 488 ; value, $488. Barley, acres, 37 ; bush., 917 ; value, $1,375.
Buckwheat, acres, 76 ; bush., 1,540 ; value, 81,540.
Oats, acres, 218; bush., 5,313; value, $3,719.
Herdsgrass Seed, acres, 1i ; buah., 8 ; value, $48.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSCHUSETTS.
BERKSHIRE  Co.	LEE.

Potatoes, acres, 104 ; bush., 13,381; value, $4,013.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 3 ; bush., 880 ; value, $220. Carrots, acres, 1; bush ., 400 ; value, $100.
Tobacco, acres, 20 ; lbe., 20,000 ; value, $2,000.
English  Mowing,  acres,  3,524 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  2,038;  value,
$20,380.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 244 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 207 ; value, $1,449.
Apple-trees cultivated for their mrlt, 4,354 ; value of apples, $1,094 ; Pear-trees cultivated for  their  fruit,  286 ;  value  of pears,  $60 ;  all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 431; value  of fruit, $75 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $171.
Merino Sheep, of duferent grades, 4,149 ;  all  other  kinds  of sheep, 35 ; gross value of all sheep, $12,552 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 14,622 ; value, $10,235 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 140; value, $70.
Hol'l!es, 258 ; value, $25,800 ; Asses and Mules, 2 ; value, $100 ; Oxen over four years old, 24 ; Steers under four years old, 43 ; value of oxen and steers, $3,320 ; Milch Cows, 633 ; ·Heifers, 119 ; value of cows and heifers, $22,560 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 9,472 ; value, $2,831 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 89,400 ; value, $13,410.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 41,700 ; value, $2,402.
Pork, dres.'\ed, lbs., 54,704 ; value, $5,470. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,800 ; value, $144. VeaI, dressed, lbs., 2,500 ; value, $200.
Swine, 169 ; value, $1,690 ; value of Poultry sold, $233 ; value of .  Eggs sold, Sl37 ; lbe.. of Honey, 267 ; value, $76 ; lbe. of Beeswax, 28; value, $11.	·	·
Cloth m'd in the family, table linen, yards, 40 ; value, $40.
Bent  Felloes  m'd,  set,  15,000 ; value,  $10,000 ; value  of  stock used,
$8,000 ;  cap.,  $4,000 ; m. emp., 10.	,,
Maple Sugar, lbs., 16,240 ; value, S2,436.


LEE.
Woollen Mills, I ; sets of Machinery, 8; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 131,308; gross value of stock used, $196,190.30 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 135,000 ; value, $255,000 ; cap., $100,000; m. emp., 83 ; £ emp., 67•
.Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. ot; 2 ; value of stock used, $8,315 ; tons m'd, 124 ; value, $12,420; cap.,
$6,200 ; hands emp., 10.
·.(6	STATISTICS  OF THE		(18'5. LBB.		BERKSHIBB    Co.
Couoo, Woollen, and other Machinery, 2 ; gross value of stock used,
$11,683.35; value of Machinery m'd, $23,840; cap., $J2,000; hands emp., 13.
Axes, Hatchets, and other Edge Tools, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $9,500 ; value of axes, hatchets, and other edge tooJ,s  m'd, $12,000  ; cap., $3,000 ; hands  emp., 8.	·
Paper Manufactories, 16 ; tons of &tock oonsumed, 4,827 ; value, $947,· 488 ; tons of printing paper m'd, 886; value, $169,000; tons of wrapping paper m'd, 125; value, $31,500 ; reams of  writing  paper m'd, 81,000 ; value, $258,000; tons of all other kinds of paper m'd, loll; value, $83,476.25; tons  of writing paper m'd,  1,717;  value,
$1,196,500 ; cap., $684,000; m. emp., 285; f. emp., 515.
Paper Collars, for ladies and gentlemen, manufa.ct.ories of, 1; value of stock used, $18,000 ; collars m'd, (gent's,)  800,000;  value,  $30,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp.,  12.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; Newspapers and Periodicals printed, (Valley Gleaner,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value, $1,400 ; cap., $2,800 ; value- of all other Print­ ing done, $3,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 7.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; daguerreotypes and phot.ographs taken, 5,000 ; value, $1,200; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 1;
£ emp., 1.
Harnesses,  establishments  for  the m. of, 1 ; value of harnesses   m'd,
$975 ; value of stock used, $450; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 2. Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and oher vehicles,
1; number m'd, 4 sleighs, 1 other vehicle ; value, $255; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.	·
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, · 8 ; value of stock used, $2,115 ; value of clothing m'd, $7,806 ; cap., $1,750; m. emp., 4 ; f. flmp., 3.
Marble, and other kinds of stone, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of  stock  used,  $600 ;  value  of  headstones  and  monuments m'd,
$2,000 ; cap., $600 ; bands emp., 2.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $150 ; lbs. of tallow candles made, 1,500; value, $240; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 50 ; value, $250 ; lbs. of bard soap m'd, 300 ; value,
$25 ; cap., $25 ; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,400 ; value of work done,
$10,300 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 10.
Cabinet Manufa.ct.ories, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; value of Chairs and  Cabinet  Ware·m'd,  $900;  cap., $250 ; bands  emp., 2.
t.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSCHUSE'ITS. 	47
BEBKSIDBB  Co.	LEE.

Tin Ware Manufactoriee, 2 ; value or stock used, $3,000 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $4,500 ; cap., $1,100 ; oonds emp., 2.
Flooring Mills, 2 ; bush. or  Grain ground, 44,000 ; value,  $67,000 ;
bbls. or Flour m'd, 800 ; value, $8,000 ; cap., $12,400 ; bands emp.,

Boote, pairs or all kinds m'd, 110; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 105 ; groes  value  of  stock  used,  $1,088; value  of  boots  and  shoes  m'd,
$1,220 ; cap., $650 ; m. emp., 4.
Brick Yards,  1 ; bricks  m'd,  160,000 ; value,  $1,600 ;  cap., $750 ;
hands emp., 4.
Planing Mills and Establishments  for m. of Sashes,  Doors  and  Blinds,
1; value of  stock used,  $1,500;  value  of  work  done,  $3,500 ; cap.,
$2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Bakeries,  1; value or stock used,  $1,400 ; value or Bread m'd, $1,700  ;
cap., $100 ; bands emp., 2.
Lime Kilns, 1; casks or lime m'd, 7,300 ; value, $10,950 ; cap., $2,500 ;
hands  emp., 15.
Saw Mills,  8; feet  of  Lumber ·prepared  fur  market,  275,000;  value,
$2,561 ; Shingles prepared  for market, 95,000; value, $340;  cap.,
$2,200;  bands emp., 5.
Firewood  and  Bark   prepared   for  market,  cords  of,  2,512 ;  value,
$10,911 ; cap., $2,500 ; bands emp., 12.
Farms, 111; acres,  14,814; value, including Buildings, $861,999 ; acres  of land improved, 4,254-f ; peI'llons emp., 203.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,96lf. Unimprovable Land, acres, 4,294t. Woodland,  acres, 3,262;  value, $48,684.
Indian Corn, acres, 278-N ; bush., 8,797 ; value, $10,996.25.
Wheat, acres,  1; bush.,  11;  value,  $27.50. Rye, acres, 69f ; bush., 1,172 ; value, $1,465. Barley, acres, 18f ; bush., 490 ; value, $490.
Buckwheat, acres, 62f ; bush., 703 ; value, $632.70. Oats, acres, 277-l"; bu8h., 8,299 ; value, $5,186.87. Beans, value, $46.
Potatoes, acres, 179f ; bush., 18,163;  value,  $9,081.50.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 4/a ; bosh., 1,166 ;  value,
$487.2S.
Onions, acres, H ; bush., 157; value, $314.
C'A.rrote, acres, lf& ; bush., 545 ; value, $204.87. Cabbage, acres, lt ; value, $372.
Market  Gardening, acres, ll;. valoe or ,products, $305.
48	STA'lISTICS OF THE	(1865.
LENOX.	BERKSHIRE   Co.

Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, .j11 ; bush., 168 ; value, $68. Tobacco, acres, 30; lbs., 4,345 ; value, $724.17.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,8811; tons  of  English  hay, 2,710 ; value,
$40,650.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 126 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 135 ; value, $1,620.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,417 ; value of apples, $2,833 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 55 ; value  of  pears,  $16 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $10.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 439 ; Merino sheep, of different grades, 186 ; gross value of all sheep, $2,500; lbs. Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 1,817 ; value, $823.12 ; lbs. of  Merino  wool, 744 ; value, $465.
Horses, 369 ; value, $34,670 ;  Oxen over four years old, 76 ;  value of oxen, $6,670; Milch Cows, 67& ; value of cows, $23,625; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (9 three-years old, 116 two-years old, 248 yearlings,) $10,230 ; gallons of  Mille  sold,  4,244 ; value,
$1,061; lbs. of Butter sold, 19,755 ; value, $6,585 ; lbs. of Cheese, 19,900 ; value, $8,316.67.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 82,243; value, $7,092.40. Pork, dressed, lbs., 18,747 ; value, $2,958. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 6,959 ; value, $695.90. Veal, dressed, lb&, 8,022 ; value; $725.60.
Swine, 241 ; value, $2,528.50 ; value of Poultry sold, $616.50 ; value of Eggs sold, $922 ; lbs. of Honey, 2,696 ; value, $546.20 ;" lbs. of Beeswax,  20;  value, $10.


LENOX.

Pig Iron, furnaces for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $45,200; tons pig iron m'd, 1,000 ; value, $53,000 ; cap., $70,200 ; hands emp., 60.
Glass Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $12,000 ; Plate Glass m'd, 20,000 feet ; value, $20,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Blacksmith  Shops,  3 ;  value  of  stock,  $3,000;  value  of work done,
$4,600 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 7.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; grain ground, bosh., 9,800 ; value, $14,700 ; cap.,
$1,800 ; hands emp., 2.
Brick Yards, 2; bricks m'd, 1,000,000 ; value, $5,000; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 5.
Lime  Kilns,  3;  casks  of  lime  m'd,  10,450;  value,  $10,450; cap.,
$7,875 ; hands emp., 16.
1865.]	IND.USTRY  OF  MASSACHUSE'ITS .

4:9
LENOX.	•	BBRUBIRB  Co.
Saw Mills, 4; ft. Lumber prepared for market, 170,000 ; value, $2;550; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared tor market, 90,000 ; value, $500; value or all other lumber, $J ,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 1,870 ; value, $7,480 ;
cap., $800 ; hands emp., 8.
Coal and Ore Beds, 2 ; value or mineral, coal, and  iron, or other ore
and mioeral substances mined, $9,000 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 10.
Farms, 182 ; acres, 12,555 ; value, including Buildings, $590,578; acres or land improved, 2,756 ; persons emp., 800.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,188. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,151. Woodland, acres,  1,274 ; value, $48,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 246; bush., 9,542; value, $14,813.
Wheat, acres, 4 ; bush., 79 ; value, $158. Rye, acres, 55 ; ush., 948; value, $1,422. Barley, acres, 14 ; bush., 860 ; value, $860.
Buckwheat, acres, 52 ; bush., 827 ; value, $496. Oata, acres, 246 ; bush., 6,469 ; value, $6,022. Potatoes, acres, 189 ; bush., 17,()89 ; value, $8,545.
Turnips, cultivated as a field Cl'Op, acres, 6 ; bush., 2,080 ; value, '570.
Carrota, acres, 2 ; bush., 1,212 ; value, $808.
Cabbage, acres, 8 ; value, $286.
Market  Gardening, acres, 4,  value, si,350.
Beeta and other esculent vegetables, acres,  ; bush., 200 ; value, $50.
English  Mowing,  acres,   1,462;   tons  of   English  bay,  2,473;   value,
$49,460 ; value or Gr&88 or Clover Seed, $100.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 289 ; t.ons or wet meadow or swale
bay, 187 ; value, $1,870.
Apple-trees cultivated tor their fruit, 8,484 ; value of apples, $8,484 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 220; value or pears, $440 ; all other f.re!l8 cultivated for their fruit, 200 ; value of fruit, $178; value or Nata or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $200.   ·
Merino  Sheep, of  diffe' rent grades,  101 ; all other kinds of sheep, 1,149 ;
gross value  or all sheep, $8,952; lbs. of Merino Wool,  505 ; value, .  •
$505 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 8,447 ; value, $2,586.
Honee, 820 ; value, $25,890; A.eses and Mules, 2 ; value, $150 ; Oxen over f'our years old, 70; Steers under four years old, 46 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,415 ; Milch Cows, 471; Heifers, 67; value of cows and heifers, $15,986 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (Colts and young cattle,) $2,558; gallons of Milk sold, 1,840 ; value,
7
50	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
MONTEREY.	• BERKSHIRE Co.

868 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 14,915; value, $4,475 ; lbe. of Cheese, 6,515 ; value, $972.
Beef, dressed, lbe., 98,429 ; value, $6,890. Pork, dressed, lbs., 60,000 ; value, $9,000. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 6,450 ; value, $645. Veal, dressed, lbs., 3,250 ;  value, $325.
Swine, 125 ; value, $625; value of Poultry sold, $400; value of Eggs
sold, $841; lbs. of Honey, 175; value, $43 ; value unenumerated article of F&r?D Produce, $300.
Cloth m'd in the family, Flannels, yards, 100 ; value of all other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, $178.


MONTEREY.

Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 82 ; value, $1,200 ; tons of wrapping paper m'd, 50 ; value, $8,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 8; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  108,000 ;  value,
$1,518 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 400,000 ; value, $1,200 ; hands emp., 3.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 123,248; value, $14,889 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 23.
Farms, 106 ; acres, 14,250 ; value, including Buildings, $2§0,100 ; acres improved, 6,860 ; persons emp., 250.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,739. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,282. Woodland, acres, 2,608 ; value, $68,225.
Indian Corn, acres, 981; bush., 2,601 ; value, $8,901.
Wheat, acres, 181; bush., 247 ; value, $495. Rye, acres, 271; bush., 500 ; value, $875.
Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 116 ; value, $240. Buckwheat, acres, 41 ; bqsh., 666 ; value, $802. Oats, acres, 1101; bush., 2,800 ; value, $2,800.
Potatoes, acres, 711 ; bush., 8,203;  value, $4,101.	•
Turnips, cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5 ; bush., 971 ; value, $325. Carrots, acres, J ; bush., 273; value, $109.
English Mowing, acres, 1,141; tons English hay, 1,179 ; value, $24,920.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 399 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 350 ; vatue, $5,885.
1866.]	INDUSTRY OF. MASSACHUSETTS.	51
BEBKsamz  Co.	MT. WA8BINGTON.

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 753; value of apples, $267 ; Pear­
trees cultivated  for their fruit, 28 ; value of  pea.rs,  $17•    •
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 616 ; all other kinds of sheep, 295 ;
gross value of all sheep, $3,174 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 1,806 ; value,
$1,«4; lbs. of  all other wool prodtl&6d,  921 ; value,  $690.
H.>rses, 162 ; value, $14,,400 ; Oxen over four' years old, 66 ; Steers under four yea.rs old, 105 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,538 ; Milch Cows, 607 ; Heifers, 166; vue of cows and heifers, $2,758; lbs. of Butter sold, 17,957 ; value, $6,770 ; lbs. of Cheese, 63,724 ; value,
$10,400.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 28,700 ; value, $1,829. Pork, dressed, lbs., 2,095 ; value, $490.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,000 ; value, $200.
Swine, 60 ; value, $866 ; value of Poultry sold, $87 ; value of Egge_ sold, $100 ; value of  Honey, $10.
Cloth m'd in the family, Flannel, yards, 70; value,  $70.


MT.  WASHINGTON.
Saw  Mills,  3 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  4,500 ; value,
$77.50; Railroad Ties, 1,500 ; value, $800 ; cap. $2,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 69 ; value, $345.
Cbarooal m'd, bush., 60,732; value, $7,895 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 24.
Farms, 38 ; acres, 12,254; value, including Buildings, $84,500; acres
of land improved, 4,221; pen!O.D8 emp., 27. Unimproved  Land, acres, 500.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 810. Woodland,  acres,  6,783;  value, $47,150.
Indian Corn, acres, Si; bush., 195;  value, $390.
Rye, acres, 37 ; bush., 860 ; value, $720. Buckwheat, acres, 61 ; bush., 962 ; value, $1,000. Oats, acres, 721; bush., 842 ; value, $842.
Potatoes, acres, 35 ; bush., 4,440 ; value, $2,220.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, l ; bush., 74 ; value, $15. English Mowing, acres, 522 ; tons of English hay, 261; value, $5,220. Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres. 70 ; tons wet meadow or swa1e hay,
41 ; value, $615.
62	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
NEW ASHFORD.	BERKSHIRE   Co.

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, (young orchards,} 870 ; Pear­ trees cultivated for their fruit, (young orchards,) 48; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $26.
Merino  Sheep,  of different  grades,  86; all other  kinds  of sheep,  1;
gross value of  all shep, $500-;  lbs. of  wool, 180 ; value, $104.
Horses, 41 ; value, $8,050; Oxen over four yearB old, 20; Steers untler four years old, 8 ; value  of oxen  ancl steers, $2,025 ; Milch Cows,
126 ; Heifers, 12 ; value of cows and heifers, $6,780; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (5 Bulls,) $150 ; lbs. Butter sold, 5,481; value,  $1,644.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 6,880 ; value, $688. Pork, dressed, lbs., 10,000; value, Sl,800. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 850 ; value, $35.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 800 ; value, $64.
Swine, 32 ; value, $600; value  of  Poultry  sold, $150 ; value of Eggs
sold, $79 ; lbs. of Honey, 103; value, $20 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, (Veal Calves,) $600.
Cloth m'd  in the family, Woollen  and  Linen, yards, 78;  value,  $82.


NEW  ASHFORD.

Saw  Mills, 1; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  20,000 ; value,
$250 ; cap., $500 ; bands emp., I.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 208 ; value, $520; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Charcoal m'd,_ bush., 25,000 ; value, $200; cap., $400;  bands emp., 8.
Farms, 40; acres, 7,778; value, including Buildings, $78,050 ; acres of land improved, l,996l ; persons emp., 49.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,213. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,010. Woodland, acres, 1,890 ; value, $25,4.50.
Todian Com, acres, 581; bush., 1,515;  value, $1,515.
Barley, acres, 16 ; bush., 261 ; value, $261.
Buckwheat, acres, 41 ; bush., 54 ; value, $54.
Oats, acres, 67t ; bush., 1,594 ; value, $797.
Potatoes, acres, 401;  bush., 8,870 ; value,  $1,161.
•Carrots, acres,!; bush., 10 ; value,  $5.
Flax, acres, i; lbs., 40; value, $8.
Tobacco, acres, 1; lbs., 800 ; value, $60•
.English Mowing, acres, 938 ; tons of  English hay,  587 ; value, $7,044.


1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	58

BERKSH RE Co.	Nzw   MABI.aoRoooH,

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 93l; wns of wet meadow or swale bay, 90 ; value, $540.	·
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,245; value of apples, $272 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8 ; value of  pears, $10.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 917 ; groes value of all sheep, $3,668; lbs. of  Merino Wool, 2,751; value, $1,375.50.	'
Horses, 46 ; value, $3,450 ; Colts under four years, 21; value, $1,198; Oxen over four years old, 6 ; Steers under four years  old,  12 ; value  of oxen and steers, $1,055 ; Milch Cows, 159 ; Heifers, 36 ; value of cows and heifers, $6,749; lbs. of Butter sold, 2,881 ; value, $720.25; lbs. of Cheese, 24,700 ; value, $4,199.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 9,074 ; value, $544.44.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 12,415 ; value, $1,484.80. Mutt.()n, dressed, lbs., 590 ; value, $53.10.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 480 ; value, $38.40;
Swine, 25 ; value, $367 ; value of Poultry sold, $398 ; value of Eggs sold, $217 ; lbe. of Honey,  882 ;  value,  $95.50 ; lbs. of  Beeswax, 16 ; value,  $8.
Cloth m'd in the family, Flannel and Fulled Cloth, value, $210 ; value
•• of all other articles m'd in the &mily for sale and not before enume­ rated,  $25.


NEW MARLBOROUGH.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for the 0:. o( 1; value of su,ck used, $1,500 ; tons m'd, 50 ; value, $6,000 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Ploughs, and other Agricultural Implements, establishments for m. o 1; value of stoc1t used, $40 ; ploughs m'd, 12 ; value, $82 ; cap.,
$100 ; bands emp., 1.
Paper Manul'aetories,8 ; tone of stock coosumed, 1,022 ; value, $115,088;
wns of printing paper m'd, 825 ; value, $118,750; wns of wrapping
paper m'd, 210 ; value, $73,500 ; reains of writing paper m'd, 35,000 ; value, $116,667 ; cap., $95,000 ; m. emp., 60 ; f. emp., 55.
Black.smith Shope, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of work done,
$2,600 ; cap., $3,400 ; hands emp:1 7.
Flouring Mille, 3; bush. grain ground, 10,000 ; value, $15,000 ; cap.,
$7,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Boote,  pairs  of  all kinds  m'd,  80 ; pairs  of  shoes  of  all  kinds  m'd,   70 ;
gt'088  value  of  stock  used,  $250 ;  value  of boots  and  shoes  m'd,
$540; cap., $100; m. emp., 2.
54	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
NEW MARLBOROUGH.	BERKSHIRE   Co.

Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 50,000; value, $800 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Casks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value  of stock  used,  $800 ; casks
m'd, 5,000 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $800 ; bands emp., 5.
Box, establi!!hments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $70 ; value of wooden boxes made, $1,200; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 4.
Lime  Kilns,   2 ;  casks  of  lime  m'd,  4,500 ;  value,  $5,600 ;    cap.,
$4,(lOO ; bds emp., 10.
Saw Mills,  9 ; feet  of Lumber  prepared for market, 1,200,000 ; value,
$9,600 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 780,000 ; value, $1,560 ; cap., $20,000; hands emp., 19. Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 2,856 ; value, $9,426 ;
cap., $200 ; bands emp., 10.
Charcoal, bu.sh. m'd, 101,000 ; value, $12,120; cap.,$5,000 ; bands emp., 13.
Farms, 225 ; acres, 24,629; value, including Buildings, $394,064 ; acres improved, 1,063 ; persons emp., 500.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,264. Unimprovable Land, acres, 8,058. Woodland, acres, 2,884 ; value, $80,882.
Indian Corn, acres, 325; bush., 6,814 ; value, $12,265. Wheat, acres, 27 ; bush., 404 ; value, $808.
Rye, acres, 195 ; bu.sh., 2,146 ; value, $4,077. · Barley, acres,  13;  bush., 164 ; value, $246.
Buckwheat, acres, 111 ; bush ., 1,990 ; value, $2,000: Oats•, acres, 889 ; bush., 8,224 ; value, $7,402.
Potatoes, acres, 154 ; bush., 19,661 ; value, $9,830.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 6 ; bush., 1,150 ; value, $460. Tobacco, acres, 4 ; lbs., 5,214 ; value, $650.
Sorghum, acres, 6; gallons of  Sirup, 136;  value, $100.
English Mowing, acres, 2,832 ; tons of English bay, 2,400; value, $48,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 725 ; tons of wet  meadow  or  swale hay, 725 ;  value, $10,150.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,000 ; value, $2,000 ; Pear-trees cultivated for the;r fruit, 369 ; value of pears, $58.  ·
Merino Sheep. of different grades, 980 ; value, $4,533 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 5,371 ; value, $4,834.
Horses, 304 ; value, $22,800; Oxen over four years old, 136; Steers under four yea old, 95 ; value of oxen and steers, $12,940 ; Milch Cows, 1,202 ; Heifers, 100 ; value of cows and heifers, $38,060 ; gallons of l\lilk sold, 252 ; value, $50.40 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 58,655 ; value, $16,096 ; lbs. of Cheese, 283,983; value, $35,090.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	55
BBRUIIIRS  Co.	Oris.

Beet; dressed, lbs., 82,858; value, $5,765. Pork, dressed, lbs., 75,005; value, $9,000. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 515 ; value, $108.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 6,850 ; value, $508.
Swine, 188; value, $2,820; value of Poultry eold, $1,088 ; value of Eggs sold, $461; lbs. of Honey, 81; valtte, $10 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 28;  value, $8 ; lbs. of Maple Sugar, 9,875;  value, $1,562.


OTIS.

Forges, 1; value of stock used, $5,000; Bar Iron, and other articles of wrought iron m'd, tons, 150; value, $15,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; bands emp., 15.
Ploughs, establishments for the m. of, and other agricultural implements, 1; Rakes m'd, 21,000; value, $2,100 ; hands emp., 8.
Saddles, Harnesses, and  Trunks, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; Har- ·
neeees m'd, 20; value, $450 ; value of stock used, $240 ; bands emp., 1.
Clothing, establishmeD'9 for the m. of, 1; value of clothing m'd, $550 ;
m. emp., I.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 1; value, $875 ; value of materials used, $175.
Blacksmith Shope, 8 ; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 8.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,100 ; bides tanned, 7,200 ; value of leather tanned, $5,855 ; cap. $25,000 ; bands emp., 10.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; gross value of stock used, $100 ; value of boots and shoes m'd,$300 ; cap., $25 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 11; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market, 960,000;   value,
$96,000 ; bands emp., 11.
Fire)Vood   and   Bark  prepared   for market, cords, 1,760 ; value, $8,882;
bands emp., 15.
Cbarooal m'd, bush., 78,419 ; value, $5,480 ; bands emp., 15.
Fanns, 166 ; acres, 19,884 ; value of same, including Buildings, $208,- 110 ; acres of land improved, 9,692 ; persons emp., 200.
Unimproved Lend, acres, 4,846. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,911. Woodland,  acres,  8,381;   value, $50,715.
Indian Corn, acres, 5 ; bush., 90 ; value, $180.
56	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
PERU.	BERKSHIRE   Co.

Rye, acres, 1\ ; bush., 85 ; value, $60. Barley, acres, li ; bush., 16; value, $16. Buckwheat, acres, 4; bush., 40 ; value, $48. Oats, acres, 21; bush., 168; value, $168.
Potatoes, acres, 86 ; bush., 10,280 ; value, $4,112.
Turnips cultivated as a fieldcrop, acres, 8; bush., 150 ; value, $87.50. Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 180; value, $44.20.
Tobacco, acres, 1; lbs., 100; value, $200. Cranberries, acres, 8 ; bush., 25 ; value, $50.
English Mowing, acres, 2,160 ; tons  English hay, 720; value, $14,400.
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale mown,  acres, 400 ; tons of wet· meadow or
swale hay, 280; value, $1,840.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, (set out within three years,) 500. Sheep, 580; gross value, $2,900 ;  lbs.  Wool  produced, 1,740 ;  value,
$1,305.
Horses, including 18 colts, 165; value, $16,560; Oxen over four years old, 107 ; Steers under four years old, 184;  value of oxen -and steers,
$10,867 ; Milch Cows, 421 ; Heifers, 173 ; value of cows and heifers,
$16,035; gallons Milk sold, 220; value, $44 ;_ibs. Butter sold, 6,740; value, $2,456 ; lbs. Cheese, 25,225 ; value, $5,045.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 11,600 ; value, $812. Pork, dressed, 49,800; value, $6,972.
Swine, including 20 Pigs,  62 ; value, $500 ; value of Poultry sold,
$26:l ; value of Eggs sold, $350.
Stockings, Socks, and Yam, m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, $30.


PERU.

Blacksmith Shope, 1; value of stock used, $200; value  of work done,
$600 ; cap., $100; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills,  8 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  135,000;   value,
$1,890 ; value of all other lumber, (8,000 Pickets, 11,000 Cloth Boards,) $150 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,957 ; value, $7,006 ; cap., $10,000; hands emp., 20.
Farms, 91 ; acres, 15,543 ; value, including Buildings, $158,273; acres of  land improved, 8,640; persons emp., 248.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,725. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 2,178.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	57
BBIU[emaE Co.	PITTSFIELD.

Woodland, acres, 2,898 ; value, $47,960.
Indian Corn, acres, 20 ; bush., M2 ; value, $818.
Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 88 ; value, $82.
Barley, acres, 22 ; buah., 485 ; value, $970. Buckwheat, acres, 48 ; bush., 1,097 ; value, $1,097. Oats, acres, 17 ; bush., 398 ; value, $898.
Potatoes, acres, 72 ; bush., 11,195 ; value, $3,858.50.
HoP8, acres, 2 ; lbs., 260 ; value, $30.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,809 ; tons of  English  hay,  1,279 ; value,
$19,185.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 891 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 527;  value,   $5,270.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 770 ; value of  apples, $264.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 2,104 ; all other kinds of  sheep, 107 ;
gross value of all sheep, $4,422 ; lbs. of Merino W001, 8,965 ; value,
$7,728.75 ; ]be. of  all other wool produced,  418 ; value,  $247.80.
Hones, 115 ; value, $8,195 ; Oxen over four years old, 88 ; Steers under four years old, 109 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,515 ; Milch
Cows, 326 ; Heifers, 180 ; value of cows and heifers, $11,730 ; lbs. of Butter  BOld,  17,984 ; value, $5,880.20 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 8,250 ; value,
$390.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 80,325 ; valu $3,032.50. Pork, dressed, lbs., 22,025 ; value, $3,308.75. Mutton, dressed, lbs.. 355 ; value, $53.26.
Veal, dressed, lbe., 3,080 ; value, $308.
Swine, 54 ; value, $758 ; value of Poultry sold, $132 ; value of Eggs sold, $450.
Cloth m. in the family, yards,  100 ; value,  $100.
· Sugar, lbs., 6,575; value, $657.50.


PITTSFIELD.
Cotton  Mills,  2 ; spindles, 5,960 ; cotton  consumed, 335,148  lbs.;  gross  .
value of stock used, $345,760 ; yards t brown  cloth m'd, 483,847 ; ,
gross value, $170,543 ; lbs.  of  yarn  m'd, and  not  made  into  cloth,
(warps,) 234,000 ; cap., $150,000 ; m. emp., 70 ; £ emp., 80.
Woollen :Mills, 10 ; sets of Machinery, 52 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 1,351,000 ; gross value of stock used, $2,000,762 ; yards of Broadcloth m'd, 210,000; value, $450,000 ; yards of CaBBimere m'd, 1,445,937 ; value,  $1,879,587;  yards of  Satinet m'd, 225,000; value,
8
STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
PJTTSJ!'IELD.	BER1t8BIBE Co.

$150,000; yards of Meltons m'd, 28,871 ; value, $28,821 ; lbs. of Balmoral Yams, 10,000 ; value, $15,000 ; yards Flannel, 880,846 ; value, $146,968; cap., $910,000; m. emp., 581; £ emp.,415.
Balmoral Skirts, establishments for the m. of, 14 ; value of stock used,
$546,040 ; skirts m'd, 248,578 ; value, $802,119 ; cap., $289,400 ; m. emp., 215 ; £ emp., 146.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than  Pig  Iron, furnaces  for  the  m.  of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 75 ; value, $7,500 ; cap., 4,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Locomotives, Steam-engines, Boilers, Machinery and Castings, establish­ ments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ; value of loco­ motives, steam-engines, boilers, &c., built, $50,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 87.
Paper Manufa.ctories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 225 ; value, $67,500 ; collar paper m'd, tons, 150 ; value, $115,000 ; cap., $70,000 ; m. emp., 8;  £ emp., 12.
elodians,  manufa.ctories  of,  1; value  of stock  used,  $1,500 ; instru­
ments m'd, 50 ; value, $8,750 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 8 ; value of stock used,.$8,500 ; newspapers printed, (Pittsfield Sun and Berkshire (,'0unty Eagle,) 2 ;
both issu weekly ; gross value, $000 ; value of all other printing done, $5,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 12 ; f. emp., 2.
Bookbinderies, 2 ; value of stock used, $400 ; value of binding done,
$1,600 ; cap., $1,400 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 2.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$5,000 ;  daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,  15,000 ;   value,
$10,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 8; £ emp., 2.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for  the  m.  of,  8 ; value m'd, $10,500 ; value of stock used, $4,500 ; cap., $4,800 ; · hands emp., 8.
Hat, Cap and Fur Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; carriages m'd, 92; sleighs, 12 ; value,
$20,000 ; value of stock used, $7,000 ; cap., $26,000 ; hands emp., 88.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 7 ; value of stock used, $18,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $85,600 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 17 ; £ emp., 24.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value
of Monuments, &c., m'd, $11,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 8.


I    .
Digitized by Google
1865.]	INDUSTRY QF MASSACHUSETTS.	59
Bzax.semz Co.	PITTSFIELD,

Soap and Candles, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$2,500; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 550 ; value of soap  and  candles m'd,
$4,800 ; cap., $1,200 ; bands emp., 8.
Master Builders, 11; Buildings erected, 83 ; value, $87,000 ; value of materials used, $50,000 ; bands emp , 72.
Blacksmith Shops, 12 ; value of stock used, $6,500 ; value of work done,  $17,000 ; cap., $4,500 ; bands  emp., 22.
Cabinet Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of Chairs,
Cabinet Ware, Coffins, &c., m'd, $10,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; bands emp., 10.
'lin  '1opper, and  Sheet  Iron Ware  Manufactories,  4; value  of stock
used,  $12,000 ; value of goods m'd, $20,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; bands
emp., 14.
Proprietary Articles and Medicines, establishments for the m. of, 2 ;
.value   of  stock  used,   $2,000 ; value  of  Drugs, Medicines  and  Dye
$tuft's, m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $1,800 ; m. emp., 8; ( emp., 1.
Flouring and Grist Mills, 2 ; bush. of grain ground, 120,000 ; value,
$165,000 ; bbls. Flour m'd, 4,500 , value, $45,000 ; cap., $35,000 ; bands emp., 7,
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $34,000 ; bides tanned and curried, 4,000 ;  and  Calf-skins.  3,000 ; value  of leather tanned and curried, $40,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; bands emp., 14. Belting of  all  kinds  and  all  materials  for  machinery, manufactories  of, 1; value   of   stock   used,  $10,000 ; value   of   goods   m'd,  $15,000  ;
bands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 740 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds  m'd, ·510 ;
gross  value  of  stock  used,  $4,000 ; value  of  boots  and  shoes m'd,
$9,000; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 11.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 400,000 ; value, $8,200 ; cap., $2,000  ;
bands emp., for 5 months, 8.
Cigars m'd, value, $4,285; value  of stock  used, $1,200 ; cap., $1,000 ;
m. emp., 4.
Planing Mills and Establishments for the m. of Snshes, Doors, and Blinds, 4 ; value of stock used; $6,600; value of sasheto, doors, and blinds  m'd, $1J,500 ; value  of all  other  work  done, $13,500 ; cap.,
$9,000 ; bands emp., 20.
Gas, estabmhments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $11,500 ; value of gas m'd, $21,155; cap., $57,000; hands emp., 6.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons preserved, for market, 2,000 ; value, $1,600.; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
60	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
PITT8J!'IELD.	BERKSHIRE  Co.

Bakeries, 3; value of stock used, $17,000 ; value of Bread m'd, $25,500;
• cap., $4,100; hands emp., 11.
Marble Quarries, 1; value of marble quarried and prepared for market,
$909; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Lime Kilus, 1; casks of lime m'd, 7,000; value, $12,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 9.
Saw  Mills, 6 ; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for market,  500,000 ; value,
$10,000 ; cap., $5,000; bands emp., 7.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,750 ; value, $14,000. Charcoal m'd, bush., 26,000 ; value, $5,200 ; hands emp., 4.
Com and other Brooms  m'd, Shaker, doz.,  100;  value,  $400 ;,, value
of stock consumed, $875.
Farms, 260; acres, 21,894 ; vaiue, including Buildings, $1,223,945; acres of land improved, 15,598 ; persons emp., 400.
Unimpl'O'Ved Land, acres, 4,082. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 200. Woodland, acres, 2,069 ; value,  $150,000.
Indian Com, acres, 400 ; bush., 18,205 ; value, $20,000. Wheat, acres, 7 ; bush., 110 ; value, $270.
Rye, acres, 278; bush., 4,774 ; value, $8,310. Barley, acres, 18; bush., 357; value, $675. Buck't'heat, acres, 135; bush., 1,749 ; value, $1,750. Oats, acres, 509 ; bush., 13,143; value, $13,143.
Potatoes, acres, 298;  bush.,  42,557 ; value,  $21,288.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5 ; bush., 1,700 ; value, $510. Carrots, acres, l; bush., 160 ; value, $80.
Cabbage, acres, 4f ; value, $660. Garden Seed, acres, l; value, $140.
Market Gardeuing, acres, 10 ; value of products, $1,400.
Beeta and other esculent vegetables, .acres, l ; bush., 100; value, $50. Flax, value of, $_78.
Tobacco, acres, 6}; lbs., 8,730 ; value, $2,183.
English Mowing, acres, 5,334 ; tons English hay, 5,074 ; value, $101,480.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 61;  tons of  wet meadow  or  swale
hay, 83 ; value, $1,660.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,000 ; value of apples, $5,000 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  1,000 ;  value  of pears,  $500; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,000 ; value of fruit, $200 ; value of Nuts or Berries, cultivated or gathered for market, $200.
Sheep, 2,757; gross value, $16,542 ; lbs. Wool produced, 13,500 ; value,
$12,150.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETIS.	61
BnKse,RE co.	R1cuxoim.
Horses, 896 ; value, $89,300 ; Oxen over four·yea.rs old, 56 ; Steers under four years old, 155; value of oxen and steer!, $12,700 ; Milch Cows, 1,182 ; Heifers, 242 ; value of cows and heifers, $64,000 ; gallons Milk sold, 40,400 ; value, $7,000 ; lbs. Butter sold, 35,220 ; value, $14,088; lbs. Cheese sold, 87,470 ; value, $5,620.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 75,000 ; value, $7,500. Pork, dressed, lbs., 100,000 ; value, $15,000. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 10,000.
Veal, dressed, value, $2,500.
Swine, 251;  value,	,800 ; value of Poultry sold, $2,500 ; value  of
Eggs sold, $500.
Flax, m. of, $73.
Woollen Yarn, lbs., 40 ; value, $80 ; Woollen Cloth, yards, 130 ; value,
$165; Flannel, yards, 156 ; value, $156.
Steam Boilers, establishments for the m. of, 1; stock used, $1,600 ; value of m's, $8,000 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 5.
Steam and Gas Fittings, establishments  for  the  m. of, 1; stock  used,
$5,000 ; value of m's, $7,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 6.


RICHMOND.

(Richmond Iron Works, located at Richmond, Great ,Barrinn, and Cheshire,  Berkshire  County, M888.]    Furnaces,  8,;  tons  of  Pig Iron
m'd, 6,092 ; value, $365,520 ; Ore Beds, 7 ; bush. of Charcoal m'd, 981,120 ; value of stock used, (charcoal, iron ore, and limestone,)
$245,823 ; hands emp., 1,000 ; cap., $243,000.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of work done,
$800 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; bides tanned, 500 ; hides tanned and curried, 800 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots and Shoes, value  of stock  used  in  m.  of,  $800 ; value  of boots
and shoes m'd,  $500;  cap., $1,000;  m. emp., 2.
Lime Kilns, 1; casks of lime m'd, 1,098 ; value, $2,278 ; cap., $1,500.
Farms, 105 ; acres, 11,470 ; value, including Buildings, $405,471 ; acres
of laud improved, 9,887 ; persons emp., 150. Unimproved Land, acres, 200.
Woodland, acres, 1,883; value, $4,2,900.
Indian Corn, acres, 187; bush., 1,176 ; value, $2,664. Wheat, acres, 2; bush., 11; value, $22.

STATISTICS OF THE	[1865
S.um 8FIELD.	BEBKemBB  Co.

Rye, acres, 11 ; bush., 220 ; value, $330. Barley, acres, 17 ; bush., 365; value, $547.50.
Buckwheat, acres, 108 ; bush., 2,145; value, $2;145.
Oat.a, acres, 167 ; bush., 3,912 ; value, $8,912. Potatoes,  acres,  801 ;  bush., 9,382;  value, $4,691.
Turnips cultivated as a. field crop, acres, 3; bush., 1,250; value, $812.50. English   Mowing,  .acres,  2,069 ; tons  of  English  hay,  1,607 ;  value,
$32,140.  •
Wet Meadoi or Swale mown, acres, 86 ; · tons of wet meadow  or swale hay, 92 ; value, $920.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,302 ; value of apples, $225 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 200 ; value of pears, $50 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 55 ; value of  fruit, $80.
Merino  Sheep,  of  different  grades,  8,439 ;  gross  value  of  all eheep,
$10,817 ; lbs. Merino Wool, 15,218; value, $15,218.
Horses, 199 ; value, $15,560; Oxen over four years old, 18 ; Steers under four years old, 81; value of oxen and steers, $2,880 ; Milch Cows, 276 ; Heifers, 60; value of cows and heifers, $9,180 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 12,725 ; value, $5,090 ; lbs. of Cheese, 3,500 ; value, $350.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 15,292 ; value, $1,070.44. Pork, 4ressed, lbs., 16,350 ; value, $2,452.50. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 708 ; value, $70.80.
Veal, dressed, lbe., 6,400 ; value, $640.
Swine, 92 ; value, $920 ; value of Poultry sold, $440 ; value of Eggs sold, $979 ; lbs.•of Honey, 600 ; value, $100.


SANDISFIELD.

Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $550 ; value of work done,
$1,600; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 8.
Chairs, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; chairs made, 2,000 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Cabinet Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of cabinet ware m'd, $1,900 ; cap., $1,800 ; hands emp., 5.
Tanning Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $15,500 ; Hides tanned, 2,500 ; value of Leather tanned, $28,000 ; cap., $5,200 ; hands emp., 7.
Boxes,  establishments  for  the  m. of,  2 ; value  of  stock  used, $600·;
value of wooden boxes made, $1,440 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	63
BuKsu1az  Co.	SAVOY.

Saw Mills,  6 ; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  575,000; value,
$5,750 ; Shingles prepared for market, 50,000; value, $150 ; cap.,
$2,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,190 ; value, $7,718 ;
cap., $8,800 ; hands emp., 10.
Farms,  189 ; acres, 80,895; value, including  Buildings, $418,579  ;
acres of land improved, 15,854 ; penons emp., 189.	t
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,489. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,566. Woodland, acres, 4,486; value, $76,786.
Indian  Corn, acres, 87 ; bush., 1,931;  value, $2,896.
Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 85 ; value, $70. Buckwheat, acres, 9 ; bush., 150;  value, $150.  Oata, acres, 79 ; bush., 1,659 ; value, $1,659. Potatoes, acres, 187 ; bush., 17,085 ; value, $8,517. Tobacco, acres, 1ti,; lbs., 2,400 ; value, $506,
English Moacree, 8,881; tons of English hay,8,107; value, $62,140.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 407 > tons of wet meadow orswale
bay, 289 ; value, $2,890.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 5,294 ; value  of  apples,  $1,167.
Sheep,  627 ; value,  $8,062 ; lbs. of Wool  produced,  1,554 ; value,
$1,898.
Hones, 255; value, $24,810 ; Oxen over four years old, 168 ; Steers under four years old, 155 ; value of oxen and steers, $18,789 ; Milch Cows, 1,059 ; Heifers, 811 ; value of cows and heifers, $49,122 ; value of N• Stock not embraced above, (35 Bulls,) $549 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 19,844 ; value, $6,770; lbs. of  Cheese,  180,814 ; value,
$82,546.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 20,475; value, $1,688. Pork, dressed, lbs., 7,675; value, $1,881. Veal, dressed, lbs., 880 J value, $97.
Swine, 245 ; value, .$2,844 ; value  of Poultry  sold,  $180 ; value of .
Eggs sold, $855 ; lbs. of Honey, 108 ; value, $27. Cloth m'd in the family, Flannel, yards, 80 ; value, $80. Maple Sugar, lbs., 81,978 ; value, $14,756.
Hand Rakes m'd, 25,000 ; value, $8,600 ; value of stock used, $1,000 ;
cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 2.




64	STATISTICS OF TilE	[1865.
SAVOY.	BERKSHIRE  Co.


SAVOY.

Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of work done,
$2,100 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Snuff, Tobacco, and  Cigars  m'd,  value,  $5,000 ; value of stock used,
$1,500 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 2 ; t emp., 8.
Saw Mills, ¥ ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 616,000; value,
$6,560; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 10,000 ; value, $300 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 16.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 884 ; value, $3,(-00; bands emp., 10.
Farms, 151; acres, 15,827 ; value, including Buildings, $185,555; acres of land improved, 8,132; pel'l!Ons emp., 185.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,048. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,948. Woodland, acres, 5,475 ;. value, $38,795.
Indian Corn, acres, 88 ; bush., 983 ; value, $1,721. Wheat, acres, 41- ; bush., 77 ; value, $192.
Rye, acres, 1; bush., 25 ; talue, $44. Barley, acres, 9 ; bush., 250 ; value, $875.
Buck.wheat, acres, 80 ; bush., 623 ; value, $628. Oats, acres, 110 ; bush., 3,300 ; value, $8,300. Herdsgrass Seed, acres, 2 ; bush., 8; value, $48. Potatoes, acres, 168;  bush., 29,575 ; value,  $14,787.
Carrots, acres, l; bush., 75; value, $56.
English  Mowing, acres, 2,706 ; tons of  English  hay, 2,128; value,
$42,560.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 247 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 222 ; value, $2,220.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,491 ; value of apples, $900; Pear­ trees cultivated  for  their  fruit,  25 ; value  r£ pears,  $25.
. Merino Sheep, of different grades, 79 ; all other ltinds of sheep, 1,031;
gross value of all sheep, $5,550 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 800 ; value,
$225; lbs. of  other wool produced, 3,491 ; value, $1,745.
Horses, 178; value, $13,850 ; Oxen over four years old, 40; Steers under four years old, 64 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,029 ; Milch Cows, 506 ; Heifers, 182 ; value of cows and heifers, $21,979 ; value of Neat Stock not embraed above, $760 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 13,869 ; value, $4,864 ; lbs. of Cheese, 66,910 ; value, $12,048.
Beef; dressed, lbs., 72,820; value, $5,785. Pork, dressed, lbs., 87,650; value, $5,587.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	65
BEBK8HIBE Co.	SHEFFIELD.

Mutton, dressed, lbs., 880 ; value, $88. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,630 ; value, $210.
Swine, 124 ; value, $2,623 ; value of Poultry sold, $380 ; value  of Egss sold, $595 ; lbs. of Honey, $490; value, $150 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 20 ; value, $10 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $1,050.
Cloth m'd in the family, yards, 847; value, $478; value "f all other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, $750.


SHEFFIELD.

Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of• work, $1,000; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $1,050 ; bands emp., 2,
Railroad Cars, Coaches,  Chaises, Wagone, Sleighs, and  other   vehicles,
establlilhments for the m. of, 5 ; value of work, wagons and sleighs,
$2,610 ; value of stock used, $630 ; cap., $2,750 ; hands emp., 6.
Tallow Candles, establishments for the m. of, 1; lbs. of tallow candles made, 3,600 ; value, $500.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; bble. of soft. soap m'd, 6 ; value, $30 ; lbs. of fuller's soap m'd, 8,000 ; value, $320 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shope, 6; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of work done,
$5,200 ; cap., $6,000 ; bands emp., 7.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock  used,  $1,050 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $1,850 ; cap., $2,730 ; bands eu:p., 3.
Flouring Mille, 2 ; bush. grain ground, 20,000 ; value, $26,000 ; bble.
of flour m'd, 800 ; value, $3,600; cap., $2,600; hands emp., 4.
Shoe Shope, 2 ; gr<>l!8 value of stock used in m. of boots and shoes, $600 ; value of boots and shoee m'd and repaired, $1,500 ; cap., $1,400 ; m. emp., 2.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactori of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; coffins made, 25 ; value, $150 ; cap., $250 ; hands emp., 1.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 2 ; value of marble quarried and prepared for market, $60,200 ; cap., $25,500 ; bands emp., 58.
Saw Milla, 5 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 545,000 ; value,
$10,850; Lathe, Shingles, and Clapboards prepared for market, 25,248 laths, 400,000 shingles, 2,000 clapboards ; value, $1,520 ; Inch Boards, 100,000 feet ; Plank, 85,000 feet ; value of both, $3,525 ; cap., $9,865 ; hands emp., 7.
9
66	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
SHEFFIELD.	BERKSHIRE  Co.

Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 867!; value, $8,414.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 183,444 ; value, $16,629 ; cap., $19,900 ; bands emp., 69.
Farms, 825 ; acres, 32,220 ; value, including  Buildings, $1,120,505;
acres  of  land improved,  18,040 ;persons emp., 376.
Unimproved Land, acres, 14,180. Unimprovae Land, acres,  6,427. Woodland, acres, 5,501; value, $138,640.
Indian Com, acres, 1,126 ; bush., 25,032 ; value,  $37,544.
Wheat, acres,. 48 ; bush., 548 ; value, $1,096. Rye, acres, 951 ; bush., 11,563; value, $17,365. Barley, acres, 25; bush., 472 ; value, $659.
uckwheat, acres, 418t ; bush., 5,515 ; value, $5,926.
Oats, acres, 880 ; buah., 17,886 ; value, $17,886. Herdsgra.ss Seed, acres, 2; bush., 20 ; value, $162. Clover Seed, acres, 7; bush., 14 ; value, $336.
Potatoes, acres, 225; bush., 20,650 ; value, $10,325.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 7l ; bush., 1,925 ; value, $547.
Onions, acres, 3 ; bush., 370 ; value, $720. Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 120 ; value, $55. Cabbage, acres, 2 ; value, $85.
Tobacco, acres, 50f ; lbs., 60,820 ; value, $8,117.
Basket  Willow  cultivated, acres, t ; value, $20.
English Mowing, acres, 3,428 ; tons English hay, 4,139; value, $82,780.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 169 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 157 ; value, $1,270.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,758 ; value of the apples, $6,808 ; Pear-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 244 ; value  of  the  pears,  $260 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 453 ; value of fruit, $303 ;  • value  of  Nuts or  Berries  cultivated  or gathered  for market, $75.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 25 ; Merino Sheep, of different grades, 117 ; all other kinds of sheep, 2,131; gross value of all sheep,
$9,092 ; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 75; value, $75 ; lbs. of Merino wool, 250 ; value, $200 ; lbs. of all other wool pro­ duced, 6,801 ; value, $5,492.
Horses, 524 ; value, $52,986 ; Oxen over four years old, 134 ; Steers under four years old, 125 ; value of oxen and steers, $16,950 ; Milch Cows, 1,134 ; Heifers, 154; value of cows and heifers, $79,600 ; gallons of Milk sold 1,036 ; value, $207 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 48,620 ; value, $18,934 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 82,345;  value,  $16,074.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 95,885 ; value, $7,672.
•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	67
BEJU[semE Co.	STOCKBRIDGE.

Pork, dressed, lbs., 151,785 ; value, $24,674. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,000 ; value, $150. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,400 ; value, $860.
Swine, 471 ; value, $6,227 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,522 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,866; lbe. of Honey,  1,945 ; value,  $495; lbs. of  Beeswax,  72 ; value, $47.     ·
Timber, 40,000 feet ; value, $600. Porcelain Clay, 100 tons ; value, $2,500. Beans, acres, 27 ; bush., 237 ; value, $581. Saw Logs, 276 ; value, $270.
Fence Poets, 480 ; value, $100. Neatsfoot Oil, gallons, 100 ; value, $150. Maple Syrup, gallons, 295; value, $167. Yearlings, 812 ; value, $4,862.
Cider Mills, 4; valutl, $2,000 ; cap., $7,680 ; gallons cider m'd, 47,400 ; gallons cider brandy m'd, 2,680 ; bush. apples used, 8,200 ; handa emp., 9.


STOCKBRIDGE.
Woollen MiTu, 1; sets of Machinery, 7 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con- 8U1Ded, 250,000 ; gross value of stock used, $250,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd, !50,000 ; value, $800,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 68 ; f.emp., 41.
Balmoral Skirts, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; skirts m'd, 400 ; value, $2,000 ; m. emp., 1.
Pig Iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $14,000 ; tons m'd,
1,200 ; value, $78,000 ; cai., $75,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 282 ; value, $25,568 ; tons wrapping paper m'd, 174 ; value, $57,869 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 2.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 16 ; value, $400 ; value of stock used, $400 ; value of work done, repairing, &c., $1,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shope, 8 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done,
$2,400 ; hands emp., 3.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $700 ; value of cabinet
ware m'd, $1,900 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Tm   Ware M:anufactoriee,  1; value of  stock used, $1,000 ; value  of tin
ware m'd, $4,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.




68	·STA1'1STICS  OF  THE	(1865.
STOCKBRIDGE.	BERKsmai:   Co.

Lime Kilns, 1; casks of lime m'd, 95 ; value, $140.
Saw  Mills,  4 ;  feet of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  17,500 ;  value,
$350 ; Clapboards prepared for market, 2,000 ; value, $4,000 ; value
of  all other lumber,  $890.  ·
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 766 ; value, $3,742. Farms,  144;  acres,  18,507;  value,  including  Buildings,  $710,420  ;
acres of land improved, 4,416 ; persons emp., 72. Unimproved Land, acres, 5,325.	· Unimprovable Land, acres, 299.
Woodland, acres, 8,467 ; value, $70,110.
Indian Cora, acres, 265; bush , 9,406 ; value, $14,862. Wheat, acres, 4 ; bush., 24 ; value, $50.
Rye, acres, 111; bush., 1,617 ; value, $2,325. Barley, acres, 28 ; bush., 700 ; value, $1,050.
Buckwheat, acres, 57  ; bush., 855 ; value, $855.  ·
Oats, acres, 327 ; bush., 8,771 ; value, $7,330. Herdsgrass Seed, acres, l; bush., 2 ; value, $12. Potatoes, acres, 153 ; bush., 15,640 ; value, $6,254.
Hops, acres, 2.
Tobacco, acres, 2!; lbs., 3,000 ; value, $520.
English Mowing, acres, 2,344 ; tons English hay, 2,102 ; value, $33,632.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 481; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 417 ; value, $5,805.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,429 ; value of apples, $4,924 ;
Pear-trees cultivated  for  their  fruit,  838; value  of pears,  500 ;  all
other trees cultivated for their fruit, 201 ; value of frui\., $79
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 774 ; all other kinds of sheep, 1,067 ; gross value of all sheep, $7,826 ; lbs. of M-erino Wool, 2,728 ; value,
$2,818; .lbs. of  all other wool producef  4,283;  value, $3,567.
Horses, 267 ; value, $24,934 ; Oxen over four years old, 72; Steers under four years old, 140 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,130 ; Milch Cows, 545 ; Heifers, 1; value of cows and heifers, $21,660;  value of Stock not embraced above, (90 Colts,) $3,335 ; gallons of Milk sold, 1,440 ; value, $337 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 15,806 ; value, $5,426; lbs. of Cheese, 4,225 ; value, $845.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 172,725; value, $12,093. Pork, dressed, lbs., 88,795 ; value, $13,317. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 80,850 ; value, $3,085. Veal, dressed, lbs., 21,065 ; value, $1,474.
Swine, 123; value, $1,835 ; value of Poultry sold, $605 ; value of Egga sold, $818; lbs. of Honey, 310 , value, $62 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 4 ; value, $2 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $767.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	69
BzaxsBIRE Co.	TmnrGBAH.


TYRINGHAM.
Paper Manufactories, 2 ; tons of stock consumed, 885 ; value, $76,000 ; reams of writing paper m'd, 18,000 ; value, $110,000 ; tons banging paper m'd, 28 ; value, $8,300 ; cap., $60,000 ; m. mp., 22; f'. emp., 41.
Blacksmith  Shops; 2 ; value of stock used, $800; value of work done,
$70 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Boot8, pairs of all kind m'd, 25 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 75; gross• value of stock used, $150 ; value  of boots  and  shoes  m'd, $275 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, (building lumber,)
250,000 ; value, $2,500; cap., $2,500; bands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark, cords prepared  tbr market, 8,000 ; value, $9,000 ;
cap., $8,500 ; bands emp., 15.
Farms, 68; acres, 10,650; value of same, including Buildings, $216,150;
acres of  land improved, 7,100 ; persons emp., 200.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,550. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,130. Woodland,  acres, 8,550 ; value, $53,250.
Indian Com, acres, :{7 ,;  bush., 1,410 ; value, $1,410.
Rye, acres, 10 ; bush., 120 ; value, $130. Barley, acres, 5 ; bush., 120; value, $180. Buckwheat, acres, 30; bush., 600 ; value, $550. Oats, acres, 80; bush., 1,600;  value, $1,600.
Sweet Com, acres, 7 ; bush., (dried,) 100 ; value, $700.
Potatoes, acres, 65 ; bush., 5,200 ; value, $2,080.
Turnips, cultivated as a field crop, 8 ; bush., 1,200 ; value, $240.
Onioos, acres, l; bush., 50; value, $100. Carrota, acres, 1; bush., 00 ; value, $150. c..bbage., l ; value, $100.
Garden Seeds, acres, 8 ; value, $1,000; value of, prepared for market,
$2,000.
Tobecoo, acres, 5 ; bs., 9,000; value, $1,800.
English Mowing, acres, 710 ; tons of English  hay, 710; value, $8,520.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,065 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 890 ; value, $8,010.
Appltrees cultivated for their fruit, 1,200; value of apples, $1,000; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 50 ; value of pears, $90 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 80; value of fruit, $45. •

"

Digitized byGoogle	...




70	STATISTICS  OF  THE		[1865. WA.8BINGTON.		BERK8BmE  Co.
Merino Sheep of different grades, 539 ; all other kinds of sheep, 153 ; gross value of all sheep, (before sheared,)  $3,460 ;  lbs.  Merino Wool, 1,617 ; value, $808.50; lbs. all other wool  produced, 612 ; value, $244.80.	·
Horses, 74; value, $7,770; Colts, 81 ; value, $2,325 ; Oxen over four years old, 78 ; Steers under four years, 118; value of oxen and steers,
$7,985 ; Milch Cows, 317 ; Heifers, 158; value of cows and heifers,
$11,880;  value  of  Neat  Stock not  embraced   above, 1 Durhaof Bull,
$100; 1 Hereford Bull, $100 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 8,000 ; value,
$2,000 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 40,000 ; value,  $6,000.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 65,000 ; value, $5,200. Pork, dressed, lbs., 82,000; value, $4,800. Mutton, dressed, lbs. 6,000; value, $900. Veal,  dressed,  9,000 ; value, $1,1'5.
Swine, 83 ; value, $1,245 ; Poultry sold, $150; Eggs sold $250 ; lbs. of Honey, 500; value,  $100 ; lbs. of  Beeswax,  25 ; value, $8; lbs. of Maple Sugar, 5,000; value, $1,000 ; gallons of Maple Molasses, 400 ; value, $500.
Establishments for the m. of articles not elsewhere enumerated, 3 ; Hand Rakes, 30,000 ; value, $5,400; value o( stock used, $1,000 ; cap. $8,000 ; m. emp. 9. .


WASHINGTON.

Saw Mills,  5 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  758,000 ;  value,
$9,096 ; Shingles prepared for market, 80,000 ; value, $320 ; cap.,
$5,400; hands emp., 10.
Firewood  and Bark prepared  for market,  cords, 6,680;  value,  $23,000;
cap., $7,602 ; hands emp., 40.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 77,000 ; value, $7,700 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp.,
20.
Farms, 102; acres, 22,724 ; value, including Buildings, $236,016 ; acres
of  land  improved,  11,362 ; persons emp., 600.
Unimproved Land, acres, 11,362. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,320. Woodland, acres, 3,787 ; value, $75,740.
Indian Corn, acres, 80; bush., 770 ; valµe, $962.
Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 20 ; value, $40. Rye, acres, 10 ; bush.;90 ; value, $112. Barley, acres, 29 ; bush., 4'86 ; value, f 729.
f
•
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	71
BnKsmaz Co.	WEST    STOCKBRIDGE.

Buckwheat, acres, 15 ; bush., 200 ; value, $200. Oats, acres, 49 ; bush., 788 ; value, $788.
Potatoes, acres, 83; bush., 11,915 ; value, $5,957.
Tumipe cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1; bush., 200 ; value, $50. English  Mowing,  acres,  2,040 ; tons  of  English  hay,  1,473 ;  value,
$22,095.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 448; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 342 ; value, $2,736.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,500 ; value of apples, $625 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 25 ; value of pears, $3 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 20; value, $3 ; value of Nuts or Berril'S cultivated or gathered for market, $500.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 901 ; value, $4,505 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 3,000;  value, $2,700.
Horses, 97 ; value, $5,820 ; Oxen ovi,r four years old, 54 ; Steers under four years old, 80 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,435 ; Milch Cows, 480 ; Heifers, 29 ; value of cows and heifers, $1,592 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (Farrow Cows, Two-years old, and Year­ lings,) $4,153; lbs. of Butter sold, 14,720 ; value, $4,416; lbs. of Cheese, 9,760;  value, $1,464.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 124,160 ; value, $99,328. Pork, dressed, lbs., 1;992 ; value, $318.72. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,200; value, $144:.	.
Swine, 48; value, $378 ; value of Poultry ld, $275 ; value of  Eggs sold, $300 ; lbs. of Honey, 800 ; value, $90 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 16; value, $8; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $584.


WEST STOCKBRIDGE.
Pig Iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $180,000; tons of pig iron m'd, 4,000 ; value, $80,000 ; cap., $150,000; hands emp., 50.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $1,000; value of machinery m'd, $2,500 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Harnesses, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, sets, 50 ; value,
$2,000 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2. Clo&hing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,400 ; value of clothing m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1.
Buildings erected, 7 ; value, $8,0_00 ; value of materials used, $2,000•
•




72	STA'l'ISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
WEST STOCKBRIDGE.	BERKsamE   Co.

Marble, and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $525 ; value of Monuments and Tombstones m'd, $1,825 ; cap., $925 ; hands emp., 3.
Blacksmith Shops, 3; value of stock used, $890 ; value of work done,
$2,250 ; cap., $1,050 ; hands emp., 4.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $775 ; nlue of  tin
ware m'd, $1,550; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 3 ; bush. of Grain ground, 30,450 ; value, $41,812 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 4,827 ; value, $50,400 ; cap., $39,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 30 ; gross value of stock used, $200 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $425 ; cap., $75 ; m. emp., 1.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of building stone quarried and prepared  for market, $20,000 ;    ·, $8,000 ; hands emp.,  15.
Lime Kilns, 1; casks of lime m'd, 7,200 ; value, $8,640 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Saw Mills,  5 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  250,000 ; value,
$5,000 ;. cap., $1,800; hands emp., 11.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 530 ; value, $2,650 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 3.
' Charcoal m'd, bush., 20,000; value, $3,200; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Ore Beds, 2 ; value of ore mined, $100,000 ; cap., $42,500 ; hands emp.,80.
Farms, 123; acres, 7,671; value, including Buildings, $208,990 ; acres of land improved, 7,873; pel'80ns emp., 145.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 105.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 193. Woodland, acres, 3,520 ; value, $59,985.
Indian Corn, acres, 192f ; bush., 5,598; value, $11,196.
Wheat, acres, It ; bush., 12 ; value, $27. Rye, acres, 69!; bush., 1,059 ; value, $2,118. Barley, acres, 16\; bush., 347 ; value;$607.
Buckwheat, acres, 8lf ; bush., 1,376 ; value, $1,513. Oats, acres, 187t ; bush., 2,961; value, $2,961.
Beans, white, acres, 3; bush., 57!; value, $115. Herdsgrass Seed, acres, 2 ; bush., 10; value, $60. Potatoes, acres, 106! ; bush., 11,291; value, $5,645.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1; bush., 190 ; value, $47. Carrots, acres, l ; bush., 828 ; value, $9,840.
Cabbage, acres, l ; value, '$85.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	73
B0Kssm1:  Co.	W1LLIAlfSTOWN.

Hope, acres, 6 ; lbs., 1,242 ; value, $525. Tobacco, acres, l ; lbs., 800 ; value, $120.
Engli8h   Mowing,  acres,  1,778;   tous  of  English   hay,   1,473;  value,  •
$36,825.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 162 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  153;  value, $1,912.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,935; value of apples, $2,919 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their truit, 204 ; value of pears, $107 ; all other trees culuvated for their fruit, 359 ; value of fruit, $104; value  of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $235.
Saxony  Sheep,  of different  grades,  80 ;  Merino  Sheep,  of  different
grades, 1,891 ; all other kinds of sheep, 293 ; gross value of all  sheep,
$12,177 ; lbs.  of  Wool . produced  from  Saxony  sheep,  116; value,
$116; lbs.of Merino wool, 11,580 ; value, $11,001; lbs. of all other wool produced, 1,001 ; value, $991.
Horses, 284 ; value, $28,925 ; Mules, 8 ; value, $800 ; Oxen over four yea.rs old, 21 ; Steers under four years old, 16 ; value of oxen and steers, $2,188 ; Milch Cows, 282 ; Heifers, 52 ; value of cows and heifers, $12,588; gallons of Milk aold, 650 ; value, $161; lbs. of Butter sold, 9,750 ; value,  $8,250 ; lbs. of Cheese,  1,490 ; value,
$298.	'
Bee( dressed, lbs:, 213,155; value,  $21,815.
Pork, dressed, lbe., 57,078;  value,  $8,561.
. Mutton, dressed, lbs. 8,835 ; value,  $883•
.Veal,  dressed, lbs.,  14,606;   value,  $1,460.
Swille, 117 ; value, $1,741 ; value of Poultry sold, $248 ; value of Eggs IIOld, $477 ; lbs. of Honey, 715 ; value, $151 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 451; value, $22.
Cloth m'd in the family, Wool Flannel, 94 yards ; Linen Kersey, 22 yards ; value, $106.


WILLIAMSTOWN.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 8,100 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 110,768; gross value of stock used, $128,428; yards of cloth m'd, (printing cloth,) 664,608; gross value, $166,152 ; cap., $50,000 ; m. emp., 22 ; £ emp., 85.	·
Hamesees, establishments for the m. of; 2 ; harnesses m'd, 175; value, U,000 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
10
74	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
WILLU.HSTOWN,	BERKSmRE   Co.

Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $500 ; value of clothing m'd, $2,800 ; cap., $600 ; m. emp., 2; £ emp., 1.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 6 ; value, $89,800 ; value of materials used, $24,550 ; bands emp., 40.	·
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $600 ; value of work done,
$5,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Cabinet Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $700 ; value of cabinet ware m'd, $1,200; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 8.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value  of  stock  used,  $1,000 ;  value  of tin  ware m'd, $2,000 ; cap,, $1,200 r hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 5,000 ; value, $6,000; cap.,
$6,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 760 ; value of stock used, $1,576 ; value of boots m'd, $8,880 ; cap., $1,676 ; m. emp., 5.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 800,000 ; value, $8,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1 ; value of stock used, $50 ; coffins made, 25 ; value, $200 ; bands emp., 1.
Dfatilleries, 1; value of stock used, $45 ; bbls. of Alcohol distilled, 1l ;
value, $150 ; cap., $50 ; bands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  145,000 ; value,
$2,900 ; Shingles prepared for market, 88,850 ; value, $1,080 ; custom sawing, $950 ; cap., $2,800 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 1,008 ; cap., $5,020.
Farms, 198 ; acres, 20,050 ; value, including Buildings, $588,777 ; acres improved, 12,248 ; persons emp., 277.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,291. Unimprovable Land, acres, 980. Woodland, acres, 5,581; value, $110,620.
Indian Com, acres, 874 ; bush., 14,122 ; value, $21,188.
Wheat, acres, 18 ; bush., 106 ; value, $212. Rye, acres, 59 ; buslt., 608 ; value, $1,851. Barley, acres, 77 ; bush., 1,958 ; value, $2,447.
Buckwheat, acres 116 ; bush., 1,45-1 ; value, $1,454.
Oats, acres, 418; bush., 10,869 ; value, $10,869. Herdsgrass Seed, acres, 2 ; bush , 9 ; value, $60. Potatoes, acres, 205 ; bush., 26,809 ; value, $12,064. Carrots, acres, 5 ; bush., 1,000 ; value,  $850.
Market  Gardening,  acres,  2 ;  value, $169.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 8!; bush., 1,000 ; value, $500. Flax, acres, 21; lbs., 2,214 ; value, $780 ; flaxseed, bush., 108 ; value,
$258.
1865.)	INDUSTRY  OF l!ASSACHUSETl'S.	75
BsaKsBIBB Co.	WINDSOR.

Tobacco, acres, In ; lbs., 900 ; value, $250.
English   Mowing,   acres,   4,765 ;  tons  English  hay,  4,147 ; value,
$66,852.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,470 ; value of apples, $8,974 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 200; value of  pears, $150; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $235.
Merino Sheep, of diff'erent grades, 3,727 ; all other kinds of sheep, 910 ;
gross value of all sheep, $22,275 ; lbs. Merino Wool, 14,709 ; value,
$1',709; lbs. all other wool produced, 8,417 ; value, $2,783.
Horses, 857 ; value, $81,850 ; Oxen over four years old, 80 ; value,
$2,405 ; Milch Cows, 816 ; Heifers, 117 ; value of  cows and heifers,
$84,980 ; Yearlings, 219 ; value, $2,190 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 15,822 ;
value, $6,828 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 119,628; value, $19,140.
Beef, dreeaed, lbs., 107,825;  value, $1,078.
Pork, dreesed, lbs., 65,717 ; value, $9,654.
·Motton, dreseed, lbs., 6,842 ; value, $684.
Veal, drell8ed, lbs., 6,100; value, $610.
Swine, 175 ; value, $1,750 ; value of Poultry sold, $716; value of Eggs eold, $600 ; lbs. of Honey, 444 ; value, $123.
Cloth, value of Flannel, Linen, and Socks, m'd in the family, $87.


WINDSOR.
Axes, Hatchets, and other Edge Tools, establishments for m.  of,  1;  value of stock used, $1,500 ; dozens of axes, hatchets, and other edge tools m'd, 267 ; value, $3,150 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp.,  2.
BJacbmith Shope, 8 ; value of stock used, $600 ; value  of  work done,
$1,200 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; Hides tanned, (50 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $1,000 ; cap., $500; hands emp., 1.
Wooden Ware of all sorts, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock ued, $1,800 ; value of ware m'd, $5,200 ; cap.,$2,700 ; hands emp., 6. Saw Mills, 6; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 415,000 ; value,
$4,545 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Firewood  and Bark prepared  for market,   cords,   1,229 ; value,  $3,610;
cap., $700;  hands  emp., 6.
Farms, 186; acres, 20,948 ; value, including Buildings, $207,153 ; acres of  land improved, 14,085; persons emp., 157.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 1,258.




76	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
WINDSOR.	BERKSHIRE Co.

Unimprovable Land, acres, 682. Woodland,  acres,  4,973;   value, $61,317.
Indian Coro, acres, 48 ; bush., 1,438;  value, $2,790.
Wheat, acres, 4 ; bush., 45; value, $112. Barley, acres, 40 ; bush., 1,057 ; value, $1,500.
Buckwheat, acres, 59 ; bush., 1,718; value, $1,374.40. Oats, acres,58 ; bus&., 1,969 ; value, $1,575.20.
Potatoes, acres, 140; bub., 25,955; value, $8,651.66.
English  Mowing,  acres,  4,203 ;  tons of English  bay, 2,667 ; value,
$26,670.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 279 ; toDS of wet meadow orswale bay, 261;  value,  $1,827.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,200 ; value of apples, $617.42 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10 ; value of pears, $10.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 1,182 ; all other kinds of sheep, 444; gross value of all sheep, $7,073; lbe. of Merino Wool, 4,428 ; value,
$4,311; lbs. of all other wool produced, 1,830; value, $1,687.
Horses, 188 ; value, $16,180 ;·Oxen over four years old, 50 ; Steers under four years old, 95 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,705 ; Milch Cows, 628 ; Heifers, 168; value of cows and heifers, 21,070 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (30 Bulls, 7 Dry Cows,) 880 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 22,226 ; value, $7,910 ; lbs. of Cheese, 94,522 ; value, $17,012.96.
Beef, dressed, lbs.,41,330 ; value, $8,306.40. Pork, dressed, lbs., 45,113; value, $6,815.82. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 135 ; value,  $16.20.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,844 ; value, $165.96.
Swine, 105; value, $959 ; value of Poultry sold, $198; \'alue of Eggs sold, $347; lbs. of Honey, 320 ; value, $96; Maple Sugar, 18,000 lbs. ; value, $3,600.
Cloth m'd in the family, Flannel, yards, 109 ; value, $186.25; value of all other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, Socks, $50.
Scythe Stone Manufactories, l ; value of stock used, $200 ; cap., $1,000 ;
value of stones m'd, $1,500 ; bands emp., 3.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	77
BRISTOL   Co.	ACUSHNET•
•
B R I S T O L  C O U N T Y .


ACUSHNET•
.Boats, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of material med, $680 ; boats built, 26 ; value, $1,850 ; cap., $500 ; hands ,emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shop!, 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of done, $850 ; cap., $250 ; bands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of  all kinds m'd, 400 ; Shoes, pairs  of  all kinds  m'd, 800 ;
gross value of stock used, $1,100 ; value of boots  and shoes  m'd,
$2,600 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 8.	•
SnofF,  Tobacco,  and  Cigars, value  m'd,  $6,000 ; value  of  stock wed,
$2,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 8. •
Boxes, establishments for the ·m. of, 4 value of stock used, $11,800 ; value of wooden boxes made, $19,100 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 14.
Saw Mills, 7 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,650,000 ; value,
$19,800 ; Shingles prepared  for market,  700,000 ; value,  $1,800 ;
cap., $10,000 ; bands emp., 15.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,500 ; value, $6,250 ; cap., $8,000 ; bands emp., 15.
Farms, 183;	, 12,500; value, including Buildings and Woodland,
$468,000 ; acres improved, 6,000 ; pel"80DS emp., 220. Unimproved  Land, acres, 1,550.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 850. Wood1and, acres, 4,600 ; value, $78,600.
Indian Corn, acres, 208 ; bush., 6,240 ; value, $9,800.
Wheat, acres, 29 ; bush., 445 ; value, $890. Rye,  acres,  40 ; bush.,  487 ; value,   $720.
Barley, acres, 59; bush., 1,092; value, $1,865. Buckwheat, acres, 6 ; bush., 78 ; value, $120. Oats, acres, 27 ; bush., 805 ; value, $725.
Potatoes, acres, 79 ; bush., 7,078; value, $4,244.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8 ; bush., 8,060 ; ,·alue, $918. Market Gardening, acres, 42 ; value, $8,200.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 5 ; bu.,h., 2,500 ; value, $875. English  Mowing,	1,288;  tons   of   English   hay,  1,277 ;,alue,
$19,155.
78	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
ATTLEBOROUGH,	BRISTOL  Co.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 12 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 8; value, $56.	·	•
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 4; tons salt hay, 8; value, $21.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,366 ; value of apples, $1,275; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 820; value of pears,  $118;  Peach and Cherry trees cultivated for their fruit, 260;  value of fruit,
$90.
Sheep, all kinds, 85 ; value, $360 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 800 ; value,
$225.
Horses, 198 ; val11e, $14,850 ; Asses and Mules, 2; value, $100; Oxen over four years old, 20 ; Steers under four years old, 8; value of oxen and steers, $1,805 ; Milch Cows, 380 ; Heifers, 72 ; value of cows and heifers, $12,485 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (7 Bulls,) $150 ; gallons of Milk sold, 14,425 ; value, $2,308 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 8,140;  value; $2,849.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 15,560 ; value, $1,556. Pork, dressed, lbs., 82,000; value, $4,800. Veal, dressed, lbs., 6,500 ; value, $650.
Swine, 169 ; value, $2,535; value of Poultry !Old, $680 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,288; lbs. of Honey, 875 ; value, $280; valup of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $900.


ATTLEBOROUGH.

Cotton Mills, 4 ; spindles, 19,000 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 558,900; gross value of stock used, $594,032.22 ; yards of Cloth m'd, (Sheet­ ings and Shirtings,) 2,035,693; gross value, $646,500; lbs. of Yarn m'd and  not  made  into  cloth, 58,122 ; gross  value,  $69,882 ; cap.,
$280,000 ; m. emp., 170 ; f. emp., 140.
Jet Pins for ornaments to ladies' dresses and bonnets, and ladies' Belt Buckles and Belt Clasps, m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, (Sheet Brass, Jet  Glass,  &c.,)  $14,000;  value  of  articles  m'd,  $35,000;  cap.,
$10,000 ; m. emp., 25; f. emp., 30.
Worsted Dress Braids, Worsted Embroidery Braids, and Elastic Cords and Webs, m. of, 2; value of stock used, (Worsted Yams,) $311,000; articles m'd, Worsted Dress Braids, doz.,300,000, Embroidery Braids, doz., 110,000; value, $411,000 ; cap., '$115,000 ; m. emp., 13 ; f, emp., 140.
Mechanics' Tools, gross value m'd and not elsewhere enumerated, $1,000; value of stock used, $400 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 6.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	79
BRISTOL  Co.	ATTLEBOROUGH.

Button Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $20,000 ; Metal Buttons m'd, 45,000 ; Dead Eye, or Pantaloon Buttons, great gross, 9,000 ; value, $45,000.
Hoop Skirts, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $25,000 ; skirts m'd, doz.,5,111; value, $89,008.18 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 2 ;
f. emp., 25.
Clock Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; clocks m'd, 1,000 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., I.
Hooks and Eyes, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; hooks and eyes m'd, great gross, 3,500 ; value, $4,500 ; cap., $5,000 ;
m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., (children,) about 100.
Jewelry, establishments for m. of, 26 ; value of stock used, $338,598 ; value of Gold and Gilt Jewelry m'd, $737,625; cap., $240,750 ; m. emp., 687 ; f. emp., 122.
Brush Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $18,000 ;'value of brushes m'd, $86,000 ; cap., $1,800; hands emp., 12.
Boats, establishments for m. of, 1; boats built, 3; value, $180. Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $9,600 ; value of work done,
$15,300 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 16.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $3,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tannpig and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,500 ;
Idles tanned, 4,200 ; hides tanned and curried, 4,000 ; value, $12,400 ; hands emp., 8.
Straw Bonnets and Hata,  establishments  for m. of,  1; value  of stock
used, $16,500 ; straw  bonnets  m'd,  28,000 ; value,  $25,000 ; cap.,
$15,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 100.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 150,000 ; value, $1,200; hands emp., 2.
Paper Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of  boxes  made, $3,400 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 11.
Gas, estab)ehments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,  $5,500 ; value of
gaa m'd, $11,388 ; cap., $50,200 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood  and  Bark   prepared   for  market,  cords  of,  2,990 ; value,
$11,960.
Charoool m'd, bush., 800; value, $120.
Farms, 828 ; acres, 28,372 ; value, including Buildings, $922,731; acres of land improved, 5,520; persons emp., 410.
Unimproved Land, acres, 9,260. UDimprovable Land, acres, 1,642. Woodland, acres, 7,810 ; value, $135,526.
Indian Corn, acres, 470; bush., 10,863 ; value, $16,284.
80	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.

ATTLEBOROUGH.	BRISTOL   Co.

Wheat, acres, 27 ; bush., 282 ; value, $464. Rye, acres, 189 ;. bush., 1,220 ; value, $1,888. Barley, acres, 85!; bush., 890 ; value, $675. Buckwheat, acres, Si ; bush., 51; value, $80. Oats, acres, 85!; bush., 1,170;  value,  $1,100.
Potatoes, acres, 270 ; bush., 22,884 ; value, $11,189.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a field crop,  acres,  12 ;  bush.,  2,510 ; value,
$980.
Onions, acres, 1 ; bush., 860; value, $540. Carrots, acres, f ; bush., 105 ; value, $80. Cabbage, acres, 2!; value, $200.
Market Gardening, acres, 6 ; value of products, $800.
Beets o.nd other esculent vegetables, acres, ; blV:lh., 200 ; value, $50. Tobacco, acres, f ; lbs., 500 ; value, $125.
Cranberries, acres, 181; bush., 1,768;  value, $5,804.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,811; tons  of  English  bay,  2,169 ; value,
$58,550.
,vet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,267 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 766 ; value, $7,660.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,284 ; value of apples, $4,037 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 915 ; value df pears, $750 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, (syaw­ berries,) $1,525.
Saxony Sheep, of different grooes, 82 ; groes value of all sheep,  $WO ;_
lbs. of  Wool produced from Saxony sheep, l00 ; value,  $60.
Horses, 452 ; value, $86,160 ; Oxen oTer four years old, 98; Steers under four years old, 20 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,050 ; Milch Cows, 731; Heifers, 120 ; value of cows and heifers, $31,040 ; gal­ lons of Milk sold, 44,199 ; value, $9,200 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 18,160 ; value, $5,256 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,980 ; value, $450.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 45,300 ; value, $5,436.	•	•
Pork, dresaed, lbs., i05,560 ; value, $17,593.84.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 15,746;  value,  $2,046.98.
Swine, 293 ; value, $4,095 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,856 ; value of Eggs sold, $3,251 ; lbs. of Honey, 195 ; value, $45 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, (White Beans,) $300.
Value of articles m'd in the family for sale, and not before enumerated, (Straw  Braid,) $2,625.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	81
Ba1sToL Co.	BERKLEY.


BERKLEY.

Shell Fish, bush., 5,000 ; value, $500.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, alewives, 875,000; shad, 1,800; value, $7,500 ; hands emp., (40 days each,) 25.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 788 ; value, $8,455.
Farms, 129 ; acres, 8,029 ; value, including Buildings, $263,140; acres
of land improved, 3,216 ; persons emp., 150. Unimproved Land, acres, 4,821.
Woodland,  acres,  1,779 ; value, $83,600.
Indian Corn, acres, 205 ; bush., 4,808 ; value, $6,462. Wheat, acres, ll ; bush., 21 ; value, $57.
Rye, acres, 117 ; bush., 1,054 ; value, $1,581. Barley, acres, IO ; bush., 105 ; value, $156. Oats, acres, 16 ; bush., 246 ; value, $246.
Potatoes,  acres,  141;  bush.,  8,861; value, $6,055.	•
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 10 ; bush., 2,288; value, $749. Onions, acres, i; bush., 50 ; value, $75.
Cabbage, acres, 4 ; value, $600.
Market Gardening, value of products, $200. Cranberries, acres, 7 ; bush., 220 ; value $700.
English Mowing, acres, 880; tons of  English hay, 695 ; value, $20,850.
Wet Meadow  or  Swale  mown,  acres,  24.6;    tons  of   wet  meadow   or
swale hay, 188 ; value, $1,865.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 219 ; tone of Bait hay, 280; value, $8,445. Appie-trees  cultiv,.ted  for  their fruit, 6,548 ; value of apples, $2,457 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 795; value of pears, $276 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $200.
Sheep, 407 ; gross value, $1,749 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,251; value,
$827.
Horses, 111; value, $7,880; Oen over four years old, 44 ;  Steers wider four years old, 15 ; value of oxen, and steers, $4,015; Milch Cows, 225 ; Heifel'8, 58 ; value of cows and heifel'B, $9,985 ; gallons of Milk sold, 7,995; value, $2,648; lbs. of Butter  sold,  5,525; value, $2,418 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 500 ; value, $100. ,
dressed, lbs., 80,920; value, $4,097. Pork, dressed, lbs., 50,560 ; value, $8,740. Mutton, dreesed, lbs., 400 ; value, $64.
Swine, 821 ; value, $2,842 ; value  of  Poultry eold, $1,199 ; value  of Eggs sold, $1,764 ; lbs. of Honey, 145 ; value, $44; value unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $2,000.
11




82	&-l'ATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
D.&.RTHOUTH.	BRISTOL    Co.

Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,100; value, $115.
Lambs sold to butchers undressed, 300; value, $1,200. Calves sold to butchers, undr, 200; value, $2,000.
Females sewing  Straw Braid  in  town, for  parties  living  out  of town,
125 ; amount paid them for the above labor annually,  $6,000.


DARTMOUTH.

Salt, establishments for m. of, 3; bush. of salt m'cl, 7,500 ; value,$600 ; cap., $3,400 ; hands emp., 4.
Master Builders, 10; Buildings erected, 7; value, $14,500; value of materials used, $8,500; hands emp., 12.
Blacksmith Shops, 6 ; value of stock used, $950 ; value of work done,
$1,475; cap., $1,050; hands emp., 8.
Ice for JJi&l'ket, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served,  4,000  ; value, $4,000;  cap., $2,000 ; hands  emp.,  2.
Whale Fishery, vessels emp. in, 3 ; tonnage, 729 ; gallons of Sperm Oil imported, 24,804 ; value, $49,608 ; gallons of Whale Oil imported, 41,458 ; value, $62,179 ; lbs.of Spermaceti imported, 99,216 ; value,
$24,804 ; lbs. of Whalebone imported, 16,742 ; value, $37,161; cap.,
$65,000; hands emp., 75.
Saw Mills, 7 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 750,000 ; value,
$105,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 475,000; value, $14,250 ; cap., $250,000 ; hands emp., 13• .
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 3,077 ; value, $11,894 ; cap., $9,250 ; hands emp., 62.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 1,800 ; value, $252; cap., $125 ; hands emp., 6. Farms,  479;  acres of  Land,  29,007 ;  value, including Buildings,
$1,165,915; acres of land improved, 5,748 ; persons emp., 821.
Unimproved Land, acres, 7,894. Unimprovable Land, acres, 923.
Woodland, acres,  11,860;  value, $193,765.
Indian Corn, acres, 449 ; bush., 17,051; value, $25,576. Wheat, acres, 5t ; bush., 92 ; value, $276.
Rye, acres, 84}; bush., 891; value, $586. Barley, acres, 126 ; bush., 8,114; value, $4,671. Oats, acres, 233; bush., 7,588; value, $6,075.
Potatoes, acres, 204 ; bush., 22,692 ; value, $17,019.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  65 ; bush., 14,868; value,
$5,747.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETrS.	88
BmsroL Co.	DIGHTON.

Onions, acres, 4t ; bush., 1,189;  value, $1,708.50.
Carrots, acres, 21; bush., 1,184; value,  $592.
Cabbage, acres, 8 ; value, $1,850.
Winter Squash, acres, 1; value, $200.
Market  Gardening, acres, 88;  value of  products, $4,097.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 7 ; bush., 2,987 ; value,
$1,468.
Cranbe1Ties, acres, 6; bush., 155 ; value, $515.
English Mowing, acres, 8,711; tons English hay, 8,242; value, $64,840.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown,  acres,  285 ; tons  wet meadow or  swale
bay,  153;  value, $1,580.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 805; salt bay, tons, 218 ; value, $2,130.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 16,591; value of apple $2,140 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,723 ; value of the pears, $479 ; number of all other  trees cultivated  for their fruit, 883 ; value of  the fruit, $182 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $96.
Sheep, 704 ; gl'088 value, $3,608;  lbs. Wool, 2,894; value,  $1,795.50.
Horse'!, 418 ; value, $44,025 ;  .As8es  and  Mules,  4 ;  value,  $85 ;  Oxen over  four  years old,  298 ;  Steers under four years old, 56 ; value of oxen and  steers,  $30,450 ; Milch  Cows, 857 ; Heifers,  171;  Talue of cows and heifers, $42,525; value of  Neat  Stock  not  embraced above,   (7   Bulle,)    $200 ;   gallons    of    Mille  sold,   99,756 ;  value,
$15,960.96;  lbe. of  Butter  sold,   18,352;   value,   $4,678.20;  lbs.   of
Cheese, 430 ; value, $64.50.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 167,529 ; value, $18,428.19. Pork, dressed, lbs., 189,848 ; value, $22,874.88. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 60,940 ; value, $9,750.40. Veal, dressed, lbs., 52,844 ; value, $6,869.72.
Swine, 423 ; value, $5,954; value of Poultry sold,  $2,874 ; value  of Eggs sold, $8,458; Honey, lbs., 145; value, $86.25; value of unenumerated  articles o( farm produce,  (97 bbls. Cider,)  $888.


DIGHTON.
Cotton Mil.lB, 2 ; spindles, 4,912 ; cotton consumed,  85,280 ; gross value of stock used, $49,488; lbs. of Yam m'd  and  not  made  into  cloth, 27,508; gross value, $31,852 ;  Cotton  Thread  m'd,  lbs.,  45,559 ; value,  $45,559 ; cap.,  $43,800 ; m.  emp., 29 ; f.emp., 56.
Woollen  Mills,  1; sets of machinery,  6 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool coo-




84	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
DIGHTON,	BRISTOL  Co.

sumed, 100,000 ; gross value of stock used, $200,000; yards of Cas­ simere m'd, 120,000; value, $240,000; cap., $50,000 ; m. emp., 47 ;
f. emp., 31.
Tack and Brad Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $40,000 ; ton of tacks and brads m'd, 250 ; value, $90,000; cap., $185,000 ; hands emp., 16.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 380 ; value, $28,834 ; tons of Wrapping Paper m'd, 817; value, $67,860; m. emp., 18; f. cmp., 3.
Sail Lofts, 1; Sails made of Am. fabric, 18; value of fabric, $3,500 ;
value of sails, $3,900; sails made of foreign fabric, 15 ; value of fabric, $2,000; value of sails, $2,500 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, (Wheelwright  Shop,)  1; value of work done,
$1,200 ; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,500; value of clothing m'd, $2,800; cap., $1,550 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 4; value of stock used; $1,100;  value of work done,
$2,300; cap., $1,700 ; hands emp., 4.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of Bread m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 2.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 400,800; value, $4,000 ; hands emp. eight weeks, 24.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 14; tonnage, 962; value, $28,000 ; amount received for freight, $84,800; hands emp., 45.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 894; value, $3,552. Charcoal m'd, bush., 8,500 ; value, $530.
Farms, 114; acres, 10,101; value, including Buildings, $330,449; acres of land improved, 8,087 ; persons emp., 181.
Unimproved Land, acres, 6,898. Unimprovable Land, acres, 116. Woodland, acres, 2,895 ; value, $53,547.
Indian Com, acres, 155 ; bush., 4,617 ; value, $6,925. Rye, acres, 79; bush., 820; value, $1,257.
Barley, acres, 27 ; bush., 464 ; value, $710. Oats, acres, 42 ; bush., 720 ; value, $720.
Potatoes, acres, 137 ; bush., 12,068 ; value, $12,068. Cranberries, acre, 7 ; bush., 66; value, $170.50.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,122 ; tons of  English hay, 969 ;  value,
$19,880.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	85
BRISTOL  Co.	EASTON.

IWet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 279 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  153 ;  value, $1,470.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 99 ; tons of salt hay, 104 ; value, $1,224.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,310 ; value of apples, $1,722 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 234 ; value  of  pears, $99 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 228 ;  value of  fruit,  $69 ; value  of  Nuts or Berries  cultivated  or gathered  for market, $322.
Sheep,  196; gross value, $940 ; lbs. of Wool produced,  681 ; value,·
$500.
Hol'l!eS, 164; value, $14,270 ; Oxen over four years old, 54 ; Steers under four years old, 29 ; value of oxen and steers, $5,450 ; Milch Cows,  261;   Heifers,  68 ;  value   of  cows  and  heifers,  $12,759 ;
value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (3 Bulls,) $130 ; gallons of Milk sold, 8,72 ; value, $537 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 2,956 ; value,
$1,301.90 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 2,640 ; value, $128.
dressed, lbs., ll3,505 ; value, $12,485.55. Pork, dressed, lbs., 73,520 ; value, $10,437.90. Mutton, dreBBed, lbs., 1,400 ; value,  $252.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 11,350 ; value, $1,043.
Swine, 159 ; value, $2,127.50 ; value of Poultry sold, $768 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,483 ; lbs. of Honey, 310 ; value, $82.20.
Hoops, Hogshead, 46,300 ; value, tl,225 ; Nail Cask hoops, 188,000 ;
value, $850.


EASTON.
Cotton Mills, 3 ; spindles, 2,270 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 39,240 ;  gross
value   of   stock   used,   $32,800 ;  lbs.  Thread  m'd  32,200 ; value,
$55,400 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 22.
Shoddy, establishmenta for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 1,800 ; value, $594 ; eap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 1. Hollow Ware and  Castings  other than Pig Iron, furnaces for the m. of
3; value of stock used, $35,6,56 ; tons hollow ware and other castings m'd, 279 ; value of the same,  $58,426 ; cap.,  $6,000 ; hands  emp.,  38.
Butta or Hinges, establishmenta   for  the m. of,  1; value of  stock    used,
$40,000 ; doz. of  iron butts or  binges  m'd,  30,000 ; value, $60,000 ;
cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 35.
Shovels, Spades, Forks, and Hoes, establishments for the m. of; 1; value of stock used, $575,000 ; doz. of  shovels, spades, forks, and
86	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
EASTON.	BRtsToL· Co.

hoes  m'd, 65,500 ; value,  $982,500 ; cap., $280,000 ; hands emp., •
250.
Piano-forte,, establishments for the m. of detatched parts of, 1; value m'd, $8,000; value of stock used, $1,200 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$80; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 1,000 ; value, $166 ;
cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.
Railroad  Cars; Coaches, Chaises,  Wagons, Sleighs,  and other vehicles,
1; wagons  m'd, 10; value, $600 ;· value  of stock  used, $200 ; cap.,
$400 ; hands emp., 1.
B1acksmith   Shops, 8 ; value  of  stock used,  $500 ; value of work  done,
$1,220 ; cap., $700 ; hoods emp., 3.
Flouring  Mills, •; bush.  Com ground, 6,400 ; value,  $8,000 ; cap.,
$3,000; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd, 19,832 ; Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd.
44,500 ;  gross ,alue  of   stock  used  in  the  m.  of   boots  and  shoes,
$95,000 ; value  of  boots  and  shoes m'd, $146,000; cap., $23,900 ;
m. emp., 65 ; £ emp., 7.
Straw  Braid  m'd and not made  into Bonnets or Hats, value,  $4,000.
Philosophical, Nautical, Astronomical, and Mathematical Instruments, establishments for the m. of, 2; instruments m'd, 3 Theodolites, 6 Engi­ neers' Transits, 15 Surveyors' Compasses, 12 Portable Compasses, 12
Gas Protracters, 30 Engineers' Levelling Rods, 6 Ektroponuters, 100
Land Chain, 125 Levels, 9 Pendulum Gun Sights, 15 Gun Calipers, 100 Chain Pins, 9,000 Thermometers ; value, $5,500 ; value of stock used, $1,300 ; cap., $8,400; hands emp., 7.
Boxes, establi$hments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value
of  wooden  boxes made, $500 ; cap., $700;  m. emp., 2.
Ice, for Market, establishments for the preservation of I ; tons of ice preserved, 600; value, $250 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 1.
Saw  Mills,  2 ; feet  of   Lumber  prepared   for  market,   83,000;   value,
$480 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 2.
Firewood   and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords,  1,216; value,  $8,650;
cap., 1,520 ; hands emp., 2.
Charcoal rn'd, bush., 3,000; value, $405 ; cap., $300 ; bands emp., 1.
Farms, 91 ; acres, 4,108 ; value, including Buildings, $194,508; acres of land improved, 8,893 ; persons emp., 91.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,484. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 106. Woodland,  acres,  6,118;  value, $121,879.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	87
BmsoL Co.	EASTON.

Jndian Corn, acres, 190 ; bush., 4,842 ; value, $7,463.
Wheat, acres, 2i; bush., 22 ; value, $44. · Rye, acres, 28; bush., 286 ; value, $429. Barley, acres, 25; bush., 827 ; value, $400.
Buckwheat, acres, i; bush., 10 ; value, $10.
Oats, acres, 24 ; bush., 315; value, $250.
Potatoes, acres, 161; bush., 12,986 ; value, $9,090.
Tnrnipa cnltivated as a field crop, 7 ; bush., 1,615 ; value, $505.
Onions, acres, l ; bush., 75 ; value, $75. Carrots, acres, i; bush., 104 ; value, $25. Cabbage, acres, 2 ; Talue, $720.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 1; bush., 500 ; value, $250.
Hope, acres, f ; lbe., 1,850; value, $650. Tobacco, acres, f ; lbs., 800; value, $200. Cranberries, l ; bush., 10; value, $20.
English  Mwiog,  acres,  1,436 ; tons  of   English  bay,  958 ; vale,
$19,160.
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale  mown, acres,  565 ;  tons  of  wet  meadow or
swale bay, '28 ; value; $8,807.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,300 ; value of apples, $2,866; . Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 910 ; value of pears, $131; all other trees cultivated  for  their  fruit, 96 ; value of  fruit, $45 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $50.
Merino Sheep of different grades, 2 ; all other kinds of sheep, 22 ; gross value of all sheep, $176 ; lbs. Merino Wool, 6; value, $6 ; lbs. of all other wool  produced,  63; value, $57..
Horses, 225 ; value, $15,985 ; Oxen over four years old, 84 ; Steers under four years old, 20 ;,alue of oxen and steers, $7,550 ; Milch Cows, 881; Heifers, 108 ; value of cows and heifers, $19,490 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (10 Goats and 9 Bulls,) $400 ; gallons of Milk sold, 13,498; value, $2,700 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 4,500 ; value, $1,800 ; lbs. of Cheese, 220 ; value, $44.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 176,104 ; value, $14,088. Pork, dressed, lbs., 83,650 ; value, $8,365. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 600 ; value,   $90.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 10,500 ;  value,  $1,050.
Swine, 207 ; value, $3,100 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,693; value of Eggs sold, $850 ; lbe. of Honey, 75 ; value, $20 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, $325.
88
STATISTICS  OF THE
(1865.

FAmHAVEN.

BRISTOL  Co.



FAIRHAVEN.


Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $23,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other ca.stings m'd, 275;  value,  $34,540 ; cap., $50,000;  hands  emp.,   55.
Brass Foundries, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of Composition Nails m'd, $1,073;  cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Ship Yards, 1; value of materials used, $1,350 ; vessels l&Ullched, 2 ; tonnage, 72{); value, exclusive of spars, rigging, and sails, $27,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; hands  emp., 20.
Boats, establishments for m. of, 3; value of materials used, $1,643 ; boats built, 42; value, $3,170 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 5.
Sail Lofts, 1; Sails made of foreign fabric, ,24; value of fabric, $3,286 ; value of sails, $3,650; cap., $100; hands emp., 2.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $300 ; "'heels m'd, 6 ; value, $36 ; cap., $100; hands emp., 2.  .
Kerosene or refined Petroleum, establishments for m. of, 1; crude petroleum used, 830 bbls..; value, $5,050;  coal used,  15 tons;  value,
$180; barrels or other casks used, 200 ;,alue, $400 ; gallons of kerosene or refined petroleum m'd, 800 ; value, $600 ; gallons of Naptha, 2,000 ; value, $400 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 2 ; value of materials used, (in repairs,) $2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $775 ; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $225 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $450; cap., $500; hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, J 2 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 16;  gross value of stock used, $132 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $208; cap., $10 ; m. emp.,  1.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for m. of,  1; value  of stock  used,
$130 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $390; cap., $10 ;  hands emp., 1.
Casks, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $3,750; casks m'd, (Oil casks,) 8,000 ; value, $6,750; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 3. Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $1,880; value of Bread m'd, $2,320 ;
cap., $200; hands emp., 8.
Whale Fishery, vessels emp. in, 7 ; tonnage, 1,613; gallons of Sperm Oil imported, 42,409 ; value, $84,818 ; gallons of Whale Oil imported, 7,880 ; value, $9,599 ; gallons Blackfish Oil, 975 ; value,
$975 ;  lbs.  of  Whalebone   imported,   8,764;  value,   $12,631; cap.,
$102,000 ; hands emp., 190.	•
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	89
BRISTOL   Co.	FAIRHAVEN.

Shell Fish, bush. taken; 1,500 ; value, $1,350.
Coastwise  or  Carrying Trade, vessels  engaged  in,  1; tonnage,  242 ;
value, $1,600 ; amount received for freight, $7,508 ; hands emp., 10.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 342 ; value, $1,952.
Farms, 108; acres, 6,000 ; value, including Buildings, $958,800 ; acres of land improved, 3,462 ; persons emp., 106.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 398.
Woodland,  acres, 2,140 ; value, $36,444.
Indian  Com, acres, 183 ; bush., 5,321; value, $6,650.   •
Wheat, acres, 6 ; bush., 73 ; value, $146.
Rye, acres, 22l ; bush., 375 ; value, $562. Barley, acres, 50 ; bush., 1,090 ; value, $1,695. Buckwheat, acres, 5f ; bush., 90; value, $185. Oats, acres, 16 ; bush., 420 ; value, $384.
Potatoes, ac, 65 ; bush., 7,544 ; value, $5,280.
Turnip3  clJ}tivated   as  a  field  crop,  acres,  13t ; bush.,  3,380 ;   value,
$1,623.
Onions, acres, 81; bush., 1,057 ; value, $1,585. Carrot acres, 31; bush., 1,522 ; value, $608. Cabbage, acres, l ; value, $80.
Market Gardening, acres, 16f ; value of products,   $2,850.
English Mowing, acres, 830; tone of English hay, 788 ; value, $14,184.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 15 ; tone of wet meadow or ewale hay, 15 ; value, $150.
Salt Mareh mown, acres, 1811; tone of Bait hay, 155 ; value, $1,240.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,857 ; value of apples, $300 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,199 ; value of pears, $200 ; all other treee cultivated for their fruit, 375 ; value of &uit, $125 ; value of Nute or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $622.
Sheep, 112 ; gross value, $654 ; lbs. Wool produced, 476 ; value, $333.
Horses, 144 ; value, $9,532 ; Oxen over four years old, 38; Steers under four years old, 16 ; value of oxen and l!teers, $3,810 ; Milch Cows, 218 ; Heife 49 ; value of cows  and  heifers,  $8,610 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulls,) $200 ; gallons of Milk sold, 10,361; value,  $2,900 ; lbs. Butter sold, 3,054 ; value, $1,553.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 16,548 ; value, $2,068.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 64,583 ; value, $11,616.
Mutton, dressed,  4 Lambs ;  value, $10.
Veal, dreeeed, lbs., 1,079 ; value, $151.
Swine, 193 ; value, $1,316; value of Poultry sold, $612 ; value of Eggs sold, $8,046 ; lbs. of Honey, 50 ; value, $16.
12
90	STATISTICS OF THE	[1866.

FALL  RIVER.	BRISTOL Co.


FALL  RIVER.

Cotton Mills, 15 ; spindles, 241,218 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 5,548,044 ; gross value of stock used, $5,921,750 ; yards Cotton Cloth m'd, (29,145,920 yard8 of 28 inch Printing Cloths, 787,846 yards of 89 inch Sheeting,) 29,933,266 ; gross value, $7,870,226 ; lbs. of Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 28,566 ; gross value, $44,386 ; lbs. of Cotton Thread m'd, 118,287 ; value, $179,500 ; lbs. of Cotton Bat­ ting m'd, 56,000 ; value, $7,840 ; value of all other goods m'd, (5,486 lbs. Twine, 13,135 lbs. Wicking,) $18,605 ; cap., $8,126,500 ; m. emp., 1,037 ; £ emp., 1,617,
Calico, establishments for printing, 2 ; yards of calico printed, 28,080,000 ; value before printing, $5,616,000 ; value after printing, $7,020,000 ; cap., $360,000 ; m. emp., 464 ; £ emp., 24.
Spool Cotton, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used, $82,500 ; dozens m'd, 640,000; value, $169,000 ; cap., $185,500 ; m. emp., 46;
£ emp., 171.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 6 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 125,000 ; gross value of stock used, $150,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 126,300 ; value, $284,000 ; cap., $150,000 ; m. emp., 65 ; £ emp., 38.
Linen, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $210,648 ; yards
of linen  m'd,  (Crash,  14  and  17 inches  wide,)  1,216,464 ;  value,
$272,900 ; cap., $400,000 ; m. emp., 95 ; £ emp., 119.
Rolling, Slitting, and Nail Mills, 1; value of stock used, $490,000; tons of Iron m'd and not made into nails, 2,598 ; value, $375,000 ; machines  for m. of Nails,  105 ; tons of nails  m'd, 2,656;  value,
$318,000 ; cap., $250,000 ; hands emp., 265.
Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$50,240 ; tons of Castings m'd, 887-l ; value, $76,500 ; cap.,$30,000; hands emp., 63.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for m. of, 3 ; gross value of stock used, $56,750 ; value of machinery m'd, $103,500 ; cap., $86,000 ; hands emp., 108.
Machine and Hand Cards of all kinds, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $6,050 ; feet of Machine  Cards m'd,  5,500 ;  value,
$8,375 ; cap., $10,000; m. emp., 3 ; £ emp., 2.
Steam Engines, and Boilers, establishments for m. of, 2; value of stock used, $11,250 ; portable steam engines and boilers built, 8 each ; value, $19,680 ; cap., $18,000 ; hands emp., 30.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	91
B1tI8TOL Co.	FALL   RIVER.

Mechanics'   Tools,  gross  value   m'd   and   not   elsewhere  enumerated,
$15,000 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; bands emp., 40.
Brase Foundries,  2 ; value of stock used,  $4,850 ; Machine Castings
and Pump Fixtures m'd, lbe., 16,000; value, $6,750; cap., $1,50 ; bands emp., 8.
Hoop Skirts, establisbmenta for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $5,110 ; skirta m'd, 6,934 ; value, $7,650 ; cap., $1,200 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 10.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 4; value of stock used, $4,650 ;
newspapers printed, (News, Journal, Press,) 8; issued daily (1,) tri­ weekly (1,) weekly (2 ;) gross value, $5,600 ; cap., $9,000; value of all other printing done, $6,150; capital invested in printing, besides newspapel"B, $1,750 ; m. emp., 21; f. emp., 1.
Bookbinderies, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,600 ; value of bookbinding daoe,  $2,600 ; cap.,  $2,800;  m. emp., 3 ; f. emp., 2.
Daguerreian  and Photographic  Establishments,  6 ;  value of  stock used,
$3,050 ; daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,  22,100 ; value,
$10,950 ; cap., $6,900 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 1.
Picture Frames, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $100 ; picture frames m'd, 850 ; value,  $175 ; cap., $100 ; bands  emp.,  2.
Silver Ware, establishmenta for m.  of,  1; value  of  stock  used, $100;
value of silver Spoons m'd, $200 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., I.
Harnesses,  est.ablishmenta  for  m.  of,  2 ; harnesses  m'd, 197 ; value,
$7,400 ; value of stock used, $3,800 ; cap., $5,500 ; hands emp., 9.
Upholstery  Maoufactories,  2; value  of stock used,  $1,075 ; value of
upholstery m'd, $3,620 ; cap., $1,300 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 1.
Hat and Cap Manufuctories, 1; value of stock used, $900 ; hata and cape m'd, 468 ; value, $1,640 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1. Boats, est.ablisbmenta  for m. of,  1; value of materials  used, S1,062 ;
boata built, 4 ; value, $2,120 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 4.
Sail Lofts, 1; Sails made of Am. fabric, 20 ; value of fabric, $2,400 ; T"alue of sails, 88,100; Sails made of foreign fabric, 30 ; value of fabric, $8,000 ; value of  sails, $9,000 ; cap., Sl,OO ; bands emp., 8.
Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishmenta  for  m. of, 3 ; number of each m'd, 13 Open Wagons, 2 Covered Wagons, 16 Wheels ; value, Sl,770 ; value of stock used, $1,075 ; cap., $1,050 ; bands emp., 6.
Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used, $15,000 ; lbs. of confectionery made, 21,000 ; value, $21,000 ; cap., $1,600 ; m. emp., -i ;f. emp. 2.
92	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
FALL  RIVER.	BRISTOL  Co.

Clothing, establishments for m. of, 7 ; value of stock used, $86,710 ; value of clothing m'd, $55,850 ; cap., $16,200 ; m. emp., 16 ; f. emp. 48.
Coffee Mills, 1; value of stock used, $8,590 ; lbs. of Coffee m'd, 16,089 ;
value, $4,288; cap., $1,700 ; hands emp., 2.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,640; value of Cemetery Monuments and Headstones m'd, $12,980 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp.,  9.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $82,500 ; bbls. of Soft Soap m'd, 250 ; value, $810 ; lbs. of Hard Soap m'd, 849,985 ; value, $43,215 ; cap., $9,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Master Builders, 14; Buildings erected, 26 ;  value, $111,700 ;  value of materials used, $77,475 ; hands emp., 75.
Blacksmith Shops, 10; value of stock used, $11,110 ; value of work done, 21,625 ; cap., $5,800 ; hands emp., 80.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of chairs
and cabinet ware m'd, $1,950 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp.,   2.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 5 ; value of stock used, $5,925 ; value of tin ware m'd, $9,800 ; cap,, $3,400 ; hands emp., 11.
Medicines, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of  medicines, $800 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1. ·
Flouring Mills, 3; bush. of Wheat ground, 295,204 ; value, $640,875 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 61,864 ; value, $660,875 ; bush. Grain ground, besides wheat,(mostly Com,) 68,500 ; value, $95,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., 38.
Tanning and  Currying  Establishments,  1; value of  stock used,  $5,500 ;
Hides tanned  and curried, 2,400 ; value of leather tanned  and  curried,
$10,000 ; cap. $12,000 ; hands emp.,  7.
Belting of all kinds and all materials for machinery, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used,  $5,070 ; lbs. m'd,  9,200 ; value,  $8,000 ; cap.,
$600 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 766 ; pairs of Shoes of all kind11 m'd, 732 ; gross value of stock used in m. of boots and shoes, $4,400 ; value of boots and shoes m'd,  $6,650 ;  cap., $1,200 ;  m.  emp., 23;  f. emp., 1.
Engine and other Hose of all descriptions, 1 ; value of stock used, $600 ;
feet of engine hose m'd,  (all  of leather,)  653 ; value,  $1,225 ; cap.,
$400 ; hands emp., 1.
Cigars m'd, value, $9,150 ; value of stock used,  $2,825; cap., $2,200 ;
m. emp., 13; f. emp., 1.
Blacking,  establishments  for  m. of, 1; value  of stock  used,  $2,000 ;
gross value of blacking m'd, $2,800 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETIS.	93
BRISTOL  Co.	FALL   RIVER.

Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of stock used,
$150 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $180 ; cap., $150; hands emp., 1.
Flour Barrels and Half Barrels, establishments for m. of, value  of stock used, $10,000 ; bbls. and half bbls.m'd, 53,581;value, $24,700; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 18. ·
Coffins of all kinds, m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,215 ; coffins made, 450 ; value, $2,430; cap., $2,500 ; hands  mp., 8.
Planing Mills, 1; value of work done, $8,21)0 ; cap., $7,000 ; han<ls emp., 8.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, (2 Wooden, 1Paper,) 3 ; value of stock used, $19,000; value of Wooden Boxes made, $27,800 ; value of Paper Boxes made, $12,500 ; cap., (in wooden boxes, $10,500, paper boxes, $5,000,) $15,500 ; m. emp., (on wood, 4, on paper, 3,) 7 ; f. emp., (all on paper boxes,) 16.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $15,000 ; value of gas m'd, $25,000; cap., $50,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishments fQr preservation of, 2 ; tons of ice pre­ served, 18,500; value, $18,500; cap., $28,000 ; hands emp., (on an average,) 100.
Bakeries, 4 ; value of stock used, $51,270 ; value of bread m'd, $71,085;
cap., $8,925 ; hands emp., 26.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, 1,250; value, $1,250; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 12.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 68; tonnage, 10,183; value, $281,415 ; amount received for freight, $306,795 ; hands emp., 836.
Stone Quarries, 2 ; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for
market, $13,500; cap., $4,000; hands emp., 21.
Saw Mills,  1; feet of  Lumber prepared  for  market,  50,000 ; value,
$1,875; Shingles prepared for market, 100,000; value, $400 ; value of all other Lumber, (Timber, Box Stuff, Cedar Posts, &c.,) $765; cap., $2,760 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood  prepared  for  market,  cords,  2,999 ;  value,  $12,450;  cap.,
$1,600; hands emp., 5.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 1,500;  value, $300;  cap., $100 ; hands emp.,  1.
Farms, 283; IICre8, 5,974 ; value, including Buildings, $781,425; acres of land improved, 3,619; persons emp., 850.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,013. Unimprovable Land, acres, 842.
Woodland, acres, 11,047 ; value, $181,115.
94	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
F..&.LL   RIVER.	BRISTOL  Co.

Indian Corn, acres, 265; bush., 10,827 ; value, $14,000. Wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 96 ; value, $200.
Rye, acres, 49 ; bush., 949 ; value, $1,425. Barley, a.cs, 77 ; bush., 2,080 ; value, $2,800. Buckwheat, acres, 5; bush., 150; value, $200. Oats, acres, 74 ; bush., 2,861; value, $2,400.
All other Grain  Crops, acres, 18; bush. of all other  Grains, 800 ; value,
$1,820.
Potatoes, acres, 179 ; bush., 18,017 ; value,  $16,220.
Turnips,  cultivated  as a field crop, acres, 56;  bush., 18,728;    value,
$9,500.
Onions, acres, 21; bush., 4,76 ; value, $7,150. Carrots, acres, 4!; bush., 1,450 ; value, $485. Cabbage, acres, 11; value, $2,055.
Market Gardening, acres, 66i ; value, $4,845.
Beets  and other esculent vegetables, acres, 9 ; bush., 2,450 ; value,
$2,025.
Cranberries, acres, 4 ; bush., 100 ; vale, $300.
English  Mowing,  acres, 1,814 ; tons of English  hay, 1,515 ; value,
$37,780.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 17 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 10 ; value, $90.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 12 ; tons of salt hay, 24 ; value, $196.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 9,327 ; value of apples, $4,045 ; Pear-tree cultivated for their fruit, 12,150 ; value of pears, $6,075; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,564; value of fruit, $3,150 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $1,200; value of Grapes grown, $2,740.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 4; all other kinds of sheep, 862 ; gross value of all sheep, $1,850 ; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 25 ; value, $25; lbs. of all other wool produced, 1,258; value,
$945.
Horses, 732 ; value, $68,860 ; Oxen over four years old, 89 ; Steers under four years old, 17 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,145 ; Milch Cows, 625 ; Heifers, 60 ; value of eows and heifers, $23,065 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (11 Bulls,) $530 ; gallons of Milk sold, 78,300 ; value, $15,600 ; lbs. Butter sold, 5,050 ; value, $1,950.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 175,516 ; value, $8,640. Pork, dressed, lbs., 73,703 ; value, $11,690. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 9,715; value, $884. Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,683; value, $1,070.
1865.]	•  INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETIS.	95
BBI8TOL  Co.	FALL  RlvEB.

Swine, 330 ; value, $8,910 ; value of Poultry 0801d, $8,350; value of Eggs sold, $3,225 ; lbs. of Honey, 350 ; value, $110; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 6 ; value, $4 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce,
$520.
Cloth m'd in the family, (Woollen Cloth,) yards, 50 ; value, $25. Peat dug, cords, 750 ; value, $1,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Establishments for m. of articles not elsewhere enumerated, 5 ; value of articles  m'd,  (Cement  Water  Pipe,)  $3,050 ; value  of  stock  used,
$2,000 ; cap., $450 ; m. emp., 7.
Turbine Water Wheels and Hydraulic Presses, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $48,119; value of articles ·m'd, $58,383 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 30.
Weavers' Harnesses, for Cotton Mills, establishments for m. of, 1; value of  stock  used,   $400 ; value  of  harnesses   m'd,  $800 ; cap.,  $500 ;
m. emp., 1; f. emp., 3.
Top Roller Covering, establishments for m. of,  1; value  of stock used,
$8,000; value of work done, $12,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; £
emp., 3.	.
Banisters and other Stair Work, Brackets and other Turned Wood Work, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,800 ; value of work done, $3,800 ; m. emp., 3.
Bonnets, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,080 ; value of bonnets m'd, $3,300 ; £ emp., 12 ; bonnets m'd, 660.
Liquid  Dentrifice,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value of stock  used,
$1,000 ; value of goods m'd, $1,500; cap., $500 ; m.mp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Weavers' Reeds, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, Sl,300 ;
value of reeds m'd, $2,500 ; cap., $1,300 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 1.
Ladies' Cloe.ks and Dresses, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock
used, $4,576 ; value of  goods m'd, $5,895 ; cap.,  $500 ; m.  emp., 2;
£ emp., 3.
Bone Boiling Establishments, 2 ; tons Glue Substitutes m'd, 58; value,
$1,570 ; tons Bone Du.st m'd, 192 ; value, $2,300 ; tons Soap Grease m'd, 15 ; value, $2,400 ; value of stock used, $8,700 ; cap., $1,500 ;
m. emp., 4.
Kerosene  Lamp  Wicking,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1;  value  m'd,
sao,ooo; value of stock used, $20,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 6 ;
£ emp., 6.
Lithographic   Printing  Establishments,   1;  value   of   printing done,
$28,000 ; value of  stock used, $18,000;  cap., $35,000 ; m. emp., 14;
f. emp., 5.
96	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
FREETOWN.	BRISTOL   Co.

Fishing Business Companies, 3 ; bbls. Menhaden  Fish taken,  49,000 ;
value, $43,700 ; cap., $5,500 ; m. emp., 24.
Fish Oil and Guano, establishments for m. of, 2; gallons  Oil  m'd, 33,598: value, $30,238; bbls. guano m'd, 5,500 ;  value,  $13,750 ; cap., $4,625 ;  m. emp., 12.
Sarsaparilla and Root Beer, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,  $1,850 ; value of articles m'd,  $3,500 ; cap.,$1,500 ; m. emp.  4.
Clothes Lines and Bed Cords, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of articles m'd, $1,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Millinery Establishments, 10 ; value of stock used, $5,500 ; value of work when finished, $11,500; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 3 ; f. emp., 37.


FREETOWN.

Shoddy, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of  stock  used,  $7,000 ; lbs. of  shoddy m'd, 30,000 ; value, $10,000 ; cap.,  $5,000 ; m.  emp.,  4  ;
f. emp., 6.
Nail Mills, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; machines for m. of Nails, 17 ; tons of nails m'd, 100 ; value, $12;000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Master Builders, 3 ; Buildings erected, 3 ; value, $5,600 ; value of materials used, $3,400 ; hands emp., 10.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of work   done,
$3,000 ; lap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 4.
Arms, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value m'd, (Sights for Government Rifles,) $7,000; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 25.
Grist Mills, 3 ; bush.  of  Grain  ground,  20,000 ; value,  $20,000 ;  cap.,
$3,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $2,300 ; Hides tanned, 800 ; Hides tanned and curried, 800 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $3,500 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp.,   3.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; Shoes, pairs of  all kinds m'd, 150 ; gross value of stock used, $300 ; vnlue of boots and shoes m'd, $600 ; cap., $400 ;  m. emp., 1.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, 1,200 ; value, $6,000 ; cap.,  $3,500 ; hands emp., 25.
Coastwise or  Carrying Trade, vessels  en<76d in, 1; tonnage,  42 ; value,
$1,000 ; amount received  for freight, $800 ; hands emp., 3,
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	97
BRISTOL  Co.	FREETOWN,

Saw Mill!, 4 ; feet or Lumber prepared  for market, 1,200,000; value,
$14,400; Lathe, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 900,000 ; value, $2,700; cap., $15,000 ; bands emp., 12.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market,  cords, 4,500 ; value, $20,000;
cap., $5,000 ; bands emp., 125.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 9,000 ; value, $1,850 ; cap., $850 ; hands emp., 25.
Farms, 167 ; acres, 7,568; value, including Buildings, $222,185; acreR
or land improved, 2,547 ; persons emp., 289.
Unimproved Lead, acres, 4,921. Unimprovable  Land, acres,  112. Wood.land, acres,  18,886;  value, $176,878.
Indian Corn, acres, 181 ; bush., 4,489 ; value, $4,489,
Rye, acres, 69 ; bush., 690 ; value, $690.
Oats, acres, (mostly cut for fodder,) 31.
Potatoes, acres, 156 ; bush., 6,800 ; value, $5,000.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 15; bush., 2,250 ; value, $900.
Ooioos, acres, 5 ; bush., 1,j()O ; value, $400.
Market Gardening, acres, 27 ; value of products, $2,500.
Cranberries, acres, 80 ; bush., 1,140 ; value, $2,280.
English  Mowing, acres, 800;  tons of English hay, 60q ; value, $10,800.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 180 ; tona wet meadow or ewale hay, 100 ; value, $800.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 62 ; tons of salt hay, 62 ; value, $620.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,451; value of apples, $10,902 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 420; value of peare, '$500 ; all other trees cultivated fur their  fruit, 500 ; value of  fruit, $125 ; value of  Nuts or Berries  cultivated  or gathered  for market,  $600.
Sheep, 491 ; groea value, $1,96-i ; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,964 ; value,
$1,276.	•
Horses, 140 ; value, $10,500 ; Oxen over four years old, 54; Steers  under fuur years old, 28 ; value of oxen and steers, $5,515 ; Milch Cows, 20o ; Heifers,- 50; value of cows and heifers, $11,500; gallona or Milk sold, 27,900 ; value, $5,580 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 10,250; value,  $8,075;  lbs.  of  Cheese,  1,800 ;  value,  $216.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 55,000 ; value, $6,600. Pork, dreeeed, lbe., 66,000 ; value, $9,900. Mutton, dreeeed, lbs., 2,500 ; value, $875. Veal,  dreued, lbs.,  7,000 ;  value,  $1,000.
Swine, 186; value, $650; value of Poultry sold, $1,500; value  of F.ggs sold, $2,iOO ; lbs. of Honey, $1;000 ; value, $150; lbs. of Beeswax, 200 ; value, $50.
18	fllBL!OTlIECA
f .;f t
·v; .. .'t.  ·"'C' IS	Digitized by	oog e
' ll\ • .
t"V
.a;, l,
98	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
1rliNSFIELD.	BRISTOL Co.

Cloth m'd  in the family,  Cotton  and  Wool, yards,  76;  valne, $60.
Mill for cleaning Cotton Waste,  1; tons waste cleaned, 100 ; value,
$12,000 ; hands emp., 6.


MANSFIELD.
Cotton Mills, 2; spindles, 1,800 ; lbs. of cotton consumed, 85,500; gross value of stock used, $80,000 ; lbs. of Yam m'd and not made into cloth, 20,000 .; gross value, $15,000 ; lbs. of Cotton Thread m'd,  15,000 ; value, $80,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 8; f. emp., 14.
Shoddy, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $10,000 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 200,000 ; value, $20,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 6 ;
f. emp., 2.
Jet Pins for ornaments to ladies' dresses and bonnets, and of ladies' Belt Buckles and Belt Clasps, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, (Hom and Gold Plate,) $5,000 ; value of Belt Buckles m'd, $20,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 20.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $50,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 1,000;  value, $75,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; hands emp.,  80.
Cutlery, establishments for m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of Shoe, Bread, Oyster and Butcher Knives, Surgical Instruments, and Skates m'd, $45,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 35.
Tack and Brad Manufactories, 4 ; value of stock used, $20,000 ; tons of tacks and brads m'd, 85; value,· $81,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd,
$600 ; value of stock used, $100; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $600 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 800 ; value, $1,200 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd,  1,000 ; value, $120 ; value of all other soaps m'd, $500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shope, 8 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done,
$8,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 4.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 2,000 ; value, $8,000 ; bbls.
of Flour m'd, 400 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 1. Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock
11Sed,  $70,000 ; value  of Straw Bonnets m'd, $100,000 ; value of
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .
BRISTOL  Co.	MAN8PIELD.

Straw Hats m'd, $75,000 ; value of  Straw Braid m'd and  not  made
into bonneta or hats,  $1,200 ; cap.,  $20,000 ; m. emp., 85 ; f. emp.,
525.	•
Bakeries, 1; value of stock o.sed, $12,000 ; value of Bread m'd, $20,000 ;
cap., $8,000; hands emp., 5.
Se.w Mills,   S ; feet  of  Lumber   prepared   for   market,   800,000 ; value,
$6,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market,
150,000 ; nlue, $450; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 8.
Firewood  and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 2,159 ; value,  $10,795.
Charcoal,  bush.  m'd,  1,200;  value, $150.
Farms, 278 ; acres; 5,572 ; value, incl_uding Buildings, $275,000 ; acres of  land improved, 5,572 ; persons emp., 455.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 198.
Woodland,  acres, 5,698;  value, $148,960.
Indian Corn, acres, 876 ; bush., 8,658 ; value, $18,487.
Wheat, acres, 6 ; bush., 90; value, $180. Rye, acres, 881; bush., 868; value, $552. Barley, acres, 9 ; bush., 118; value, $125. Oats, acres, 51; bush., 1,020 ; value, $1,000.
Potatoes, acres, 178; bush., 1,884 ; value, $10,880.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 81; bush., 875 ; value, $218.
Onions, acres, l; bush., 64 ; value, $80. Carrots, acres, 1l; bush., 400 ; value, $100. Cabbage, acres, l; value, $100.
'Wm'  ter  Squash, acres,  1; value,  $50.
Beeta and other esculent vegetables, acres, 81; bush., 640; value, $160. Cranberries, acres, 18; small crop in 1864 ; usual crop valued at $600. English  Mowing,  acres,  1,16-i ; tons  of  English hay,  675 ; value,
$16,875.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 468 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 417 ; value, $4,170.
Apple-tree1:1  cultivated for their fruit,  8,462 ; value  of  apples,  $1,200 ;
Pear-trees cultivated  for  their  fruit, 514 ; value of  pear8, $400.
Sheep, 26 ;  gross  value  of   all  sheep, $180.
Ho1'8es, 212 ; value, $15,900; Oxen over four years old,  86 ; Steel'll under four 1881'8 old, 28 ; value of oxen and steel'8, $8,000 ; Milch Cows, 285 ; Heifers, 86 ; value of cows and heifel'll, $12,840; gallons of  Milk  sold, 1,085 ; value,  $217 ; lbe. of  Butter   sold,  5,658; value,
$1,414; lbs. of Cheese, 8,830 ; value, $388. Bee( dressed, lbe., 159,250; value, $11,147. Pork, dressed, lbe., 61,450; value,  $6,145.
100	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
NEW  BEDFORD,	BRISTOL  Co.

Veal, lbs., 15,000; value, $1,500.
Swine, 82 ; value, $984; value of Poultry sold, $1,897 ; value of Eggs
sold, $666 ; lbs. of Honey, 45 ; value, $11.
111    Value of  articlee m'd in the family for l!&le and not  before   enumerated,
(Straw Braid,) $1,346.
Buket Manufaotories, 1; value of stock used, $3,040 ; value of goods m'd, $18,885 ; hands emp., 42.
Shoe Awls, establishments for m. of, 1; value of atock used, $1,000 ; value of good& m'd, $5,600 ; handa emp., 8.


NEW BEDFORD.
Cotton fills,1; spindles, 30,000; lbs. cotton consumed, 850,296 ; gross
value of stock used, $760,236; yards ·cloth m'd, 2,767,800 ; value,
$1,383,900 ; cap. $1,000,000 ; m. emp., 220 ; f. emp., 300.
Rolling, Slitting, and Nail Mills, 1; value of stock used, $117,060; tons of Iron m'd and not made into nails, 1,140 value, $170,757 ; cap., $80,000; hands emp., 40.
Hollow  Ware  and  Castings,  other  than  Pig  Iron,   furnaces  for the
m. of,  2;  value  of   stock  used,  $42,400 ; tons  m'd,  497 ; value,
$65,160 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 34.
Steam-engines and Boilers, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $10,000 ; steam-engines and boilers built, 27 ; value,
$23,750 ; cap. $40,000 ; hands emp., 55.
Cement Pipes, establishments  for the m. of, 8 ; value of  stock  used,
$500 ; feet of pipe m'd, 7,300 ; value, $1,215; cap., $2,800 ; hands emp., 3.
Iron Railing and Iron Fences, shops for the m.·of, 1; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of irou railing and iron fences m'd, $1,800 ; cap., $1,000;  hands emp., 8.	·
Metal  Sheathing  of all kinds for vessels, manufactories  of, 1;  value,
$532,146; lbs. Yellow Sheathing, Bolts, Nails and Plates m'd, 1,670,930; value, $601,772; cap. $300,000 ; hands emp., 100.
Copper Manufactories 1; value of stock used, $266,078 ; lbs. copper m'd, 835,465 ; value, $800,886 ; lbs. Sheathing; BrazUJ'B, and Bolts, 835,465 ; value, $800,886.	•
Brass  Foundries,  2 ; value of stock used,  $32,000 ; lbs. Composition
Spikes, Nails, Castings, and Copper m'd., 44,000; value, $90,000 ;
,cap., $23,000; hands emp., 17.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	101
BRISTOL  Co.	NEW   BEDFORD,

Hoop Skirts, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used $4,500; hoop skirts m'd, j,900 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; £ emp., 11.
Chemical Preparations, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock. used, $27,500 ; value of  preparationB m'd,	0,000;  cap., $15,000 ; • hands emp., 15.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 2 ; value  of stock   used,
$16,862 ; newspapers and periodicals printed, (Standard, Mercury, and  Shipping  List,) 8; 2 dailies, 8 weeklies ;	value, $20,700 ; cap., $25,100 ; value of all other printing done, $6,650; cap.,$6,500;
m. emp., 82.
Bookbinderies, 3 ; value of stock used, $1,860 ; value of bookbinding
done, $5,668; cap., $2,050 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 13.
Dagnerreian and Photographic Establishments, 12 ; value of stock used,
$29,150 ;  daguerreotypes  and photographs  taken,  399,090 ; value,
$58,740 ; cap., $22,400 ; m. emp., 88 ; £ emp., 87.
Looking-gJasses and Picture Frames, manufactories of, 5 ; value of stock ued, $10,800 ; articles m'd, 92,200; value, $16,800; cap.,  $3,350; hands  emp., 27.
Mattresses  of   all  kinds  and  materials,  manufactories  of, 1;  value of
stock used, $500; mattreseee  of each kind  made, 162 ; value,  $800;
cap., $300 ; m. emp., 2.
Saddles and Harnesses, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; total m'd, 725; value, $15,720; value of stock used, $7,050; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 17.
Cordage Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $260,000 ; cordage m'd, (hemp and manilla,) tons, 1,000 ; value, $400,000 ; cap., $75,000 ; m. emp., 80 ; £ emp., 20.
Ship Yards, 2 ; value of materials used, $24,500 ; Vessels launched, 3;
tonnage, 676; value, exclusive of spars, rigging, and sails,$44,800 ; cap., $4,500 ; hands emp., 30.
Boe.t8, establishments for the m. of, 5 ; value of materials used, $9,500 ; boats built, 303; value, $23,165 ; cap., $9,900 ; hands emp., 21.
Mast and Spar Yards or Sheds, 3 ; value of materials used, $6,500 ; masts and spars m'd, "15; value, $12,000; cap., $9,500 ; hands emp., 11,
Sail Lofts, 7 ; sails made of American fabric during the year, 122 ; value of the fabric, $20,013; value of the sails, $25,757 ; sails made of foreign fabric, 681 ; value of the fabric, $90,193 ; value of the sails, $109,548 ; cap., $80,000;  hands emp., 40.
Salt, establishments for the m. of, 1; bush. m'd,  700; value,  $500 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 1.
102	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
Naw BEDFORD.	BRISTOL  Co.

Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for the m. of, 8; total m'd, 229 ; value, $44,517 ; valne of stock used, $24,250 ; cap., $42,800 ; hands emp., 70.
, Confectionery,  establishments  for the  m. of, 8; value  of stock used,
$78,000;  lbs.  confectionery  made,  84,000 ;  value,  $91,120 ; cap.,
$19,000 ; m. emp., 9 ; £ emp., 4.
Photograph Albums, 1; value of stock used, $850 ; albums made, 8,500 ;
value, $1,875; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1 ; £ emp., 8.
Clothing,  establishments   for  the  m.  of,  20 ;  value  of   stock  used,
$167,878 ;  value of  clothing  m'd, $288,833;  cap., $111,600 ; m.
emp., 50; £ emp., 199.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for the m.  of  articles from, 8; value of stock used, $4.578; quantity of articles m'd, 715; value,  $7,823;  cap., $7,600;  hands   emp., 7.
Sperm Candles, establishments  for the m. of, 5 ; value of stock   used,
$87,847 ; lbs. made, 291,157 ; value, $107,848 ; cap.,$46,000 ; hands
emp., 10.	•
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 7 ; value of stock used, $64,085 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, including oil soap, 2,902 ; value, $47,228 ; lbs. hard  soap m'd,  285,000 ; value,  $29,000; value  of all  other  soaps
$12,000; cap., $43,000 ; bands emp., 23.	.
Sperm and Whale Oil, establishments for the m. of, 6 ; gross value of etock consumed, $8,682,780 ; gallons  sperm  oil  m'd,  1,117,865 ; value,    $2,558,765 ;   gallons   whale   oil   m'd,   1,293,958 ;    value,
$1,669,205;  cap., $968,000;  hands emp., 79.
Kerosene or refined Petroleum, establishments for the m. of, 4; gallons crude petroleum used, 513,400 ; value, $185,144 ; tons coal  used, 715 ; value, $7,865 ; bbls. used, 18,800 ; value, $88,850 ; gallons of kerosene or refined petroleum m'd, 361,000; value, $232,500 ; gal­ lons of Lubricating Oil, 215,000; value, $107,500; gallons of Naptba, 40,300 ; value, $13,500 ; lbs. Parafline, 209,000 ; value, $41,720 ; value of other products, $21,600 ; cap., $152,000 ; bands emp., 50.
Master Builders, 40 ; Buildings erected, 3; value, $15,000 ; value of the materials used, $10,000 ; bands emp., 18.
Blacksmith Shops, 17 ; value of stock used, $84,055 ; value of work done, $62,100;  cap., $23,800;  hands emp., 56.
Shot and Shells m'd, tons, 600 ; value, $7,200 ; cap., .$4,000 ; m. emp., 20.
Tin Ware Mannfactories, 9 ; value of stock used, $12,200 ; value of
tin ware m'd, $22,100 ; cap., $19,600 ; bands emp., 88.
1865.,	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	103
BmsTOL Co.	NEW      BEDFORD.

Flouring Mills, 2 ;  bush. grain ground, 806,752 ; value, $622,666;
bbls. flour· m'd, 51,172; value, $598.064 ; cap., $210,000; hands
emp., -tli.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $86,000 ; , Hides and Skins tanned and curried, 21,000 ; value ofleather tanned and curried, $57,000; cap., $50,000; hands emp., 82.
Boots, pairs of all  kinds  m'd, 8,300;  pairs  of shoes  of all kinds  m'd,
66,620; gross value of stock need, $118,711; value of boots and shoes  m'd, $141,889;  cap., $44,555;  m. emp., 109;  f. emp., 21.
Engine and other Hose of all descriptions, establishments for the m. of,. 1; value of stock used, $840 ; feet of engine and ship hose m'd, (material, leather,) 680 ; value, $680 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 1.
Cigars m'd, value·o, $6,150 ; value of stock used, $2,148;  cap.,$2,600;
m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 8.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock  used, $2,000; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $5,717 ; cap., $1,400; hands  emp., 8.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 18; value of stock used, $99,781; bbls. of casks m'd, 66,417 ; value, $145,220 ; cap., $55,100 ; hands emp., 61.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 2 ; value  of st.ock. used, $8,565 ; coffins made, 660 ; value, $6,339 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Planing Mills and Establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 1; value of stock used, $1,700; value of sashes, doors, and blinds m'd, $2,000; value of all other work done, $500; cap., $1,300; hands emp., 8.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $3,280 ; value of wooden boxes made, $660 ; value of paper boxes made, SS,000 ; cap., $8,600 ; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 4.
Gas, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $14,200 ;
value of gas m'd, $22,000 ; cap., $180;ooo ; hands emp., 11.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 2 ; tons preserved,
12,000 ; value, $9,000 ; cap., $25,000;  hands emp., 12.
Bakeries,  6;  value  of  stock  used,  $100,500;   value  of  Bread   m'd,
$181,500 ; cap., $80,800 ; hands emp., 89.
Whale Fishery, vessels emp. in, 178 ; tonnage, 57,862 ; gallons Sperm Oil imported, 1,428,894; value, $2,748,116; gallons of Whale Oil imported, 1,504,156; value; $1,925,820; lbs. Spermaceti, (extracted fro!D sperm oil,) 653,862 ; value, $288,683 ; lbs. Whalebone imported, (08,550 ; value, $785,890; cap., $4,728,000; hands emp., 1,981.
104	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
NEW  BEDFORD,	BRISTOL  Co.

Coastwiae or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 21; toruiage, 2,140 ; value, $113,000 ; amount received for freight, $102,442 ; hands emp., 97.
Saw Mills, 1; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, 132,000 ; value,
$8,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Firewood,  cords  prepared  for market,  1,078;   value, $4,312.
Corn and other Brooms m'd, 72,000 ; value, $8,000 ; value of stock consumed, $2,000 ; cap., S300 ; hands emp., 1.
Farms, 364 ; acres, 7,374 ; value, including Buildings, $808,515 ; acres improved, 3,710 ; persons emp., 400.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,206. Unimprovable Land, acres, 18. Woodland, acres, 2,440 ; value, $78,145.
Indian Com, acres, 182 ; bush., 6,958 ; value, $6,95.
Wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 72 ; value, $144.
Rye, acres, 12 ; bush., 175 ; value, $175.
• Barley, acres, 110; bush., 4,000 ; value, $3,600.
Oats, acres, 50 ; bush., 1,750;  value, $1,015.
Potatoes, acres, 76 ; bush., 12,160 ; value, $7,296.
Turnips cultivated as a field  crop, acres, 7 ; bush., 1,850 ; value, $387.
Cabbage, acres, 3 ; value, $450.
Market Gardening, acres, 4 ; value, $600.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 3 ; bush., 800 ; value, $400. Cnuv,erries, bush., 20 ; value, $60.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,315;  tons  of  English . bay,  2,170 ; value,
$26,040.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 54 ; tons salt hay, 44 ; value, $3,008.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,030 ; value of apples, $1,070 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,400 ; value of pears, $578 ; all other trees cultivated  for their  fruit, 240; value of fruit,  $185 ;
:value of  Berries cultivated  or gathered  for market,  $400.
Sheep, 28 ; value, $140 ; Iba. of Wool produced, 98 ; value, $49.
Horses, 883; value, $113,024 ; .A88e8 and Mules, 9 ; value, $900 ; Oxen over four years old, 32 ; Steers under four years old, 14 ; value of oxen and steers, $3,246 ; Milch Cows, 648 ; Heifers, 20 ; value of cows  and heifers,  $38,400 ; gallons of  Milk sold, 72,024 ; value,
$11,524 ; lbs. of Butter  sold, 5,835; value, $1,684 ; lbs. of Cheese,
800 ; value, $54.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 626,600 ; value, $93,990. Pork, dressed, lbs., 53,838 ; value, $7,537. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 3,065 ; value, $429.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	105
BRISTOL  Co.	NORTON.

Veal, dreMed, lbe., 2,960;  value, $855.
Swine, 558 ; value, $6,890 ; value of Poultry sold, $75 ; value  of Eggs sold, $1,875 ; lbe. of :Honey, 250; value, $75; lbe. of Beeswax, 20;  value, $10.
Morse's Patent Twist Dfills, value of m'd, $8,000 ; value of stock used,
$4,000 ; cap., $30,000 ; m. em.P., 12 ; f. emp., 15.


NORTON. ·
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, t,500 ; cotton  OOD8wned,  tons,  25 ; groes value of stock used, $25,000 ; yards of Cotton  Cloth  m'd,  100,000 ; gross value,   $85,00 ; lbe.  of  Cotton   Batting   m'd,   210,000 ; value,
$63,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; m. emp., 18 ; f. emp., 7.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig irou, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $85,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 8SO ; value,  $90,000;  cap., $10,000 ; hands  emp., 65.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; number of each m'd, 17 ; value, $450; value of stock used, $275 ; cap., $500; hands emp., 1.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of ltock used, $500 ; value of Gravestones and Monuments m'd, $900 ; hands emp., 2.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; bbl& of
eoft soap m'd, $100; value, $450 ; hands -emp., 1.
Blacksmith  Shope,  1; value   of  stock  used,  $75 ; value  of  work  done,
$500 ; cap., $125 ; hands emp- 1,
Pumps, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $50 ; value of
PWDJ?8 m'd, $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Friction  Matches,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value  of stock used,
$2,800 ; gross of matches m'd, 7,000 ; value, $4,500 ; cap., $1,500;
m. emp., 1; f. emp., 8.
Ice for market, establiebts for preservation  of, 1; tons preserved,
5,000 ; value, $800 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 7 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, 892,000 ; value,
$4,704 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 850,000 ; value, $1,050 ; cap., $5,000 ; bands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark, prepared for market, cords, 2,822 ; value, $5,644 ;
hands emp., 50.
Charcoal m'd, bush., s;soo ; value, $500 ; hands emp., 1.
H
106	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865,

NORTON.	BRISTOL  Co.

Farms, 186; acres, 15,960 ; value, including Buildings, $519,750; acre11
. improved, 5,218; pe1'80ns emp., 223. Unimproved  Land, acres, 7,007.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 355.
Woodland, acres, 1,931;  value,  $61,792.
Indian Corn, acres, 315 ; bush., 5,084 ; . value, $5,084. Wheat,  acres,  1; bush.,  12 ;  value, $20.
Rye, acres, 98 ; bush ., 716 ; value, $800. Barley, acres, 2 ; bush., 40 ; value, $50. Oats, acres, 103; bush., 1,111 ; value, $555.
Potatoes, acres, 189 ; bush., 11,112 ; value, $5,556.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8; bush., 1,085; value, $271. Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 160 ; value, $25.
Cranberries, acres, 451 , bush., 229 ; value, $458.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,631;  tons  of   English  hay,   924 ;  value,
$18,480.
Wet Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, 750 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 4571 ; value, $4,575.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,008 ; value of apples, $1,669 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 148; value of pears, $300 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $125.
Sheep, 107 ; gross value, $535 ; lbs. of Wool produced,  342 ; value,
$154.
Horses, 196; value, $12,015 ; Oxen over four years old, 106; Steers under four years old, 55 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,840 ; Milch Cows, 340 ; Heifers, 69 ; value of cows and heifers, $11,883 ; gallons of Milk sold, 3,590 ; value, $553 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 3,274 ; value,
$655 ; lbs. of Cheese, 750 ; value, $60.	· Beef, dressed, lbs., 120,000 ; value, $7,000.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 25,000 ; value, $2,000. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 4,800 ; value, $884. Veal, dressed, lbs., 18,000 ; value, $1,440.
Swine, 220 ; value, $6,353 ; value of Poultry sold, $627 ; value of Eggs sold, $781; lbs. of Honey, 250 ; value, $75.
Ba.,kets m'd, 2,650 ; value, $700 ; cap., $250 ; m. emp., 4.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS .	107
Ba1sTOL Co.	



Nail Mills, 4 ; value of stock used, .$216,950 ; machines, 153 ; tons of
aails m'd, 8,173; value, $369,800 ; cap., $40,000 ; bands  emp., 162•
.Anchor Forge, 1; value of stock  used,  $15,000;  tons  of anchors  m'd,
150; value, $25,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; bands emp., 10.
Shovels, Spades, Forks, and Hoes, establishments for m. o( 2 ; value of stock used, $10,200 ; dozens of shovels, spades, forks, and hoes m'd, 2,531; value, $16,550; cap., $3,000 ; bands emp., 15.
Soop, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; bbls. of aoft soap m'd, 60; value, $270; lbs. of bard  soap  m'd,  4,000 ; value, $480.
Blacksmith Shope, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,000; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 88,685 ; gross value of stock used, $76,254; value of shoes m'd, $110,126 ; cap., $25,000 ; m. emp., 60 ; £ emp., 12.
Value of  Straw  Braid  m'd and not  made  into bonnets or bats,  $562.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000;  value of Wooden Boxes made, $2,000 ; cap., $1,000;  m. emp., 4.
Alewives, Shad, uid Salmon taken, 650,000 alewives, 600 shad ; value,
$4,225 ; bands emp., 16.
Saw Mills,  6 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  85,300 ; value,
$3,530 ; Shingles prepared fur market, 260,000 ; value, $520 ; cap.,
$2,000;  bands emp., 7.
Firewood uid Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,469 ; value, $5,172;
bands emp., 13.
Farms, 127 ; acres, 10,807 ; value of same, including Buildings, $447,- 845 ; acres of land improved, 5,581; persons emp., 108.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 516.
Woodland, acres, 4,711 ; value, $100,570.
Indian Corn, acres, 184 ; bush., 4,679; value, $4,579. Wheat, acres, 13 ; bush., 174 ; value, $261.
Rye, acres, 43 ; bush., 398 ; value, $398. Oats, acres, 82; bush., 1,197 ; value, $5,985.
Potatoes, acres, 124; bosh., 8,822 ; value, $4,411.
Turnips  cultivated  88  a field  crop,  acres, 10 ; bush., 1,544 ; value,
$308.80.
Cranberries, acres, 10; bush., 846 ; value, $1,088.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,343;  tons  of  English  bay,  870 ;  value,
$17,400;  G1'888  or  Clover  Seed, bush., 12; value, $60.
108	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
REHOBOTH.	BRISTOL    Co.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 858; toils of wet meadow orswale bay, 149 ; value, $1,192.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,881; value of apples, $2,887 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 778; value of pears, $289 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 22 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $75.
Saxony  Sheep,  of  different   grades,  188;  value,   $701;  lbs.  of Wool,
520 ; value, $812.
Horses, 208 ; value, $17,597; Oxen over four years old, 68;  Steers  under four years old, 88 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,585 ; Milch Cows, 808; Heifers, 84; value of cows and  heifers,  $10,898 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (2 Bulls,) $80 ; gallons of  Milk sold, 177,028 ; value,  $2,886.48;  lbs.  of  Butter  sold,  1,687 ; value,
$506.10; lbs. of Cheese, 80; value, $16. Bee dressed, lbs., 68,540 ; value, $6,854. Pork, dressed, lbs., 18,180; value, $1,818•. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,370; value, $237.
Swine, 885 ; value, $2,870; value of Poultry sold, $568 ; value of Eggs sold, $804.70 ; lbs. of Honey, 100 ; value, $25.


REHOBOTH.
Cotton Mills, 8 ; spindles, 2,888; cotton consumed, lbs., 175,000 ; gross value of stock used, $52,500; lbs. of Cotton Batting  m'd,  6,000 ;  value of all other goods m'd in said mills, (Cotton Twine,) $184,000; cap.,  $23,900 ; m. emp., 6; £ emp.,  19.
Blacksmith  Shops, 4 ; value of  stock used, $1,000 ; value of work  done,
s1;900; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 4.
Straw Braid m'd and not made into bonnets or hats, yards, 4,000 ; value,
$80.
Shad taken, 2,400 ; value, $800; hands emp., 8.
Saw  Mills,  4; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  95,000 ; value,
$1,900 ; Shingles prepared for market, 205,000; value, $917 ; hands emp., average i.
Firewood  and Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 2,451;  value,  $10,814.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 29,250 ; value, $4,452.
Farms, 328 ; acres, 26,978 ; value, including Buildings, $643,120 ; acres improved, 16,287 ; pereons emp., 845.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,287.
Uprovable  Land, acres,  400.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	109
Ba1sTOL   Co.	REHOBOTH.

Woodland, acres, 9,004 ; value, $212,600.
lndiah Corn, acres, 503 ; bush., 13,125 ; value, $13,125,
Wbee.t, acres, 5 ; bush., 65;  value, $110. RY,.8, acres, 245 ; bush., 2,484 ; value, $8,104.
:Barley, aaree, 11!; bu8h., 112 ; value, $162. Buckwheat, acres, 16; bush., 148; value, $148. Oats, acres, 249 ; bush., 4,687 ; value, $8,708.
Potatoes,  acres, 344t;  bush., 29,571;  value,  $20,554.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 11; bush., 2,281; value, $570. Onions, acres, 2} ; bush., 670 ; value, $727.
Wm'  ter  Squ88h, acres,	; value,  $87.50.
Market Gardening, acres, 67 ; value, $4,185.
Cranberries, acres, 38 ; bush., 200 ; value, $500.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,908 ; tons  of  English  hay,  1,895  ; value,
$37,700.
Wet·Meadow or Swale mo>V"D, acres, 1,287 ; ton11 of wet meadow or swale hay, 781 ; value, $8,466.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 26 ; tons of  salt hay, 13   ; value, $120.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 9,804 ; value of apples, $8,760 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 445 ; value· of pears, $134 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 568 ; value of fruit, $848 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $2,296.
Sheep, 332 ; value, $1,376 ; lbs. of Wool, 1,068;  value, $845.
Hones, 329 ; value; $21,821; Oxen over four years old, 102 ; Steers under four years old, 49 ; value of oxen and steers, $10,073; Milch Cows, 696 ; Heif61'11, 71 ; value of cows and heifers, $24,160 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (115 Calves and Yearlings, 5 Bulls, 5 Colts,) $2,706 ; gallons of Milk sold, 80,952 ; value, $5,571 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 16,831; value, $4,899; lbe.. of Cheeee, 1,745 ; value, $349.
Bee dreeeed, lbs., 265,900 ; value, $26,590. Pork, dressed, lbs., 128,860 ; value, $18,039. Veal, dressed, lbs., 10,700 ; value, $1,070.
Swine, 404 ; value, $6,089 ; value of Poultry sold, $2,412 ; value of Egge sold, $3,903 ; lbe.. of Honey, 900 ; value, $300 ; Beans, bueh., 181 ; value, $452.
Hoops, Hogshead, m'd, 256,500 ; value, $5,643 ; Nail Cask hoops m'd,
.W2,000 ; value,  $1,608.
110
STATISTICS  OF THE
(1865.
SBBKOKL

BRISTOL   Co•


SEEKONK.

Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $600 ; value of work done,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Pail and Tub Manufactories,  1; value of  stock used, $500 ; value m'd,
$1,000 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills,  3 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  700,000 ; value, ·
$8,400 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 40,000 ; value, $1,200; cap., $2,000; hands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,139 ; value, $4,556 ;
cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 25.
Farms, 166 ; acres, 10,686 ; value, including Buildings, $485,624 ; acres improved, 8,660 ; persons emp., 198.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,828. Unimprovable Land, acres, 880. Woodland, acres, 5,818; value, $106,860.
Indian Corn, acres, 254 ; bush., 6,100 ; value, $7,625.
Rye, acres, 187 ; bush., 1,469 ; value, $1,886. Barley, acres, 12 ; bush., 811; value, $889. Oats, acres, 85 ; bush., 825 ; value, $660.
Potatoes, acres, 196 ; bush., 16,425 ; value, $16,425.
Turuips cultivated as afield crop, acres, 8; bush., 1,577 ; value, $478.10.
Onions, acres, 2; bush., 874 ; value, $561.
Cabbage, acres, 4 ; value, $501.
Market  Gardening, acres, 17 ; value of  products, $2,500.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2; bush., 200 ; value, $100.
Tobacco, acres, l; lbe 700; value, $100.
Cranberries, acres, 5 ; bush., 400 ; value, $800.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,266; tons of English  hay,  1,004 ; value,
$20,080.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 464 ;· tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  808;  value, $8,080.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 39; tons of salt hay, 25; value,   $875.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,711; value  of apples,  $818.50 ;
value  of  Nuts  or Berries  cultivated  or gathered  fur market, $200.
Saxony Sheep, of diiferent grades,  24 ; value,  $88; lbe. of Wool,  66 ;
value, $49.50.
Horses, 171 ; value, $12,720 ; Oxen over four years old, 72 ; Steers under four years old, 86 ; 'value of oxen and steers, $5,870 ; Milch Cows, 858 ; Heifers, 89 ; value of cows and heifers, $12,UO ; gallons of Milk sold, 878,726; value, $53,021.64 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 4,820 ; value, $1,070.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	111
BBI8TOL  Co.	SOIIEB8ET.

dressed, lbe., 26,450 ; value, $2,645.
Pork, dressed, lbe., 66,414 ; value, $7,969.68. Veal, dressed, lbs., 11,885 ; value, $1,866.20.
Swine, 185 ; value, $2,298; value of Poultry sold, $942 ; value of Eggs
sold,  $1,768 ; value  of  unenumerated  articles  of  Farm  Produce,
$1,500.


SOMERSET.
Bolling, Slitting,  and  Nail  Mills,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $400,000  ;
tons of Iron m'd and not made into nails, 1,500 ; value,  $170,000 ;	I
machines for the m. of nails, 50 ; tons m'd, 2,000 ; value, $250,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., 280.	·
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. of,  1; value of stock used, $20,QOO ; tons hollow ware and other castings m'd, 400 ; value,  $86,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; bands  emp.,  40.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $8,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 2.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value of Gravestones m'd, $500 ; cap., $200 ; bands emp., 1.
Master Builders, 1; Buildings  erected, 5; value, $10,000 ; value of
materials used, $6,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock  used, $400 ; value of work done,
$1,000; cap., $300 ; bands emp., 1.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $1,600; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 1.
Shoes, pain of  all kinds  m'd,  20,000 ; groea  value  of  stock   used,
$20,000 ; value of shoes m'd, $80,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 20;
£ emp., 5.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 80,000 ; value, $5,600 ; cap., $6,000; hands
emp., 8.
Stone and Earthen Ware, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $4,800 ; value of stone and earthen ware m'd, $18,600; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 11.
Coffins  and  Burial  Cases of  all  kinds,  manufactories  of,  1; value   of
stock used, $200 ; coffins made, 80 ; value, $400 ; cap., $800 ; hands
em.p., 1.
Ice  for market, establishments for preservation  of, 1; tons  preserved,
600 ; value, $1,250 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.	•
112	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
SoxERSET.	Ba1sTOL   Co.

Shell  Fi.sh,  bush.  taken,  10,000 ; value,  $5,000 ; cap., $500; hands
emp., 25.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 800,000; value, $8,000; hands emp., 16.	.
Coostwise  or  Carrying  Tnu:le,  vessels  engaged  in,  6 ; tonnage,  450 ;
value, $20,000 ; amount received for freight, $111500 ; hands emp., 24.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,050 ; value, $5,250 ; hands emp., 4.
Farms, 82 ; acres, 4,675; value, including Buildings, $557,900 ; acres of  land improved, 2,840 ; persons emp.,  246.
t	Unimproved Land, acres, 2,885.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,400. Woodland, acres, 600 ; value,  $9,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 175; bush., 6,600 ; value, $18,200. Rye, acres, 50 ; bush., 900 ; value, $1,800.
Barley, acres, 22 ; bush., 950 ; value, $1,425. Oats, acres, 150; bush., 6,000 ; value, $6,000.
Potatoes, acres, 180 ; bush., 17,000; value, $18,600.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  18;   bush., 10,000 ; value,
$4,000.	.
Onions, acres, 20; bush., 8,000 ; value, $12,000. C'Al.rrots, acres, i; bush., 600; value, $180.
Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $200.
Market Gardening, acres, 2 ; value  of products, $600.
Beets and other  esculent  vegetables, acres,  2 ; bush.,  $1,000 ;  value,
$500.
Tobacco, acres, l ; lbe., 500 ; value, $800.
English   Mowing,  acres,  975 ;  tons  of  English  hay,   1,000 ;  value,
$80,000.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 85 ; tons salt hay, 85 ; value, $500.
Apple-trees cultivated for their &uit, 8,900; value of apples, $1,800 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  1,200 ; value  of pears,  $890 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 850 ; value of fruit, $100; value of Nuts or Berriee cultivated or gathered for market, $100.
Sheep,   200 ;  value,   $1,200 ;  lbs.  of   Wool   pN?duced,   850;   value,
$500.
Horses, 150 ; Oxen over four years old, 86; Steers under four years old, 70 ; Milch Cows, 281; Heifers, 21 ; gallons of Milk sold, 11,750 ; value, $2,850 ; lbe, of Butter sold, 18,120; value, $4,000 ; lbe. of
Cheese, 500 ; value, $100.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	113
BRISTOL   Co.	Sw.A.NZEY.

Bee( dressed, lbe., 85,000 ; value, $8,500. Pork, dressed, lbe., 57,750; value, $10,000. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 500 ; value, $65.
Veal, dressed, lbe.,  14,500;  value, $1,800.
Swine, 108;  value,  $2,000 ; value or Poultry sold, $1,500 ; value of
Eggs sold, $800; lbs. of Honey, 100.	·


SWANZEY.
Wagons m'd, 20; value, $2,500 ; value of stock used, $925; cap., $850;
hands emp., 3.	·
Blacbmith Shope, 8 ; value of stock med, $700 ; value of work done,
$1,800; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 8.
Shad taken, 753; value, $215 ; bands emp., flve weeks each,  2.
Farms, 191 ; acres, 10,780 ;value, including Buildings; $403,900 ; acres
of  land improved,  5,081;  pel'80DlJ emp., 255.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,029.	. Uoimprovable  Land, acres, 826.
Woodland, acres, 2,500 ; -value, $50,000 ; acres belonging to non-
reside.nts, 2,214 ; value, $44,280.	· Indian Corn, acres, 487; bush., 14,787 ; value, $18,419.50. Rye, acres, 123 ; bush., 1,789 ; value, $2,236.25.
Barley, acres, 37 ; bmh., 855 ; value, $1,068.50.	•
Oats, acres, 300 ; bush., 9,842 ; value, $7,881.25. Potatoes, acres, 289 ; bush., 29,000 ; value, $22,400.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  30; bush.,  11,800 ; value,
$3,390.
Onions, acres, 181; bush., 4,198; value, $6,289.50.
English Mowing, acres, 1,894; tons English hay, 1,622; value,  $48,660,
Wet Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, 288;  tone of wet meadow  or swale
hay, 117; value, $1,885.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 56; !,ons of salt hay, 41; value, $410.
Apple-trees cultivated for their &nit, 7,003; value of apples, $8,727 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their &nit, 9 ; value of pears, $211; Strawberries, boxee, 1,000 ; value, $200.
Sheep, Native and Southdown, 855; value, $1,420; lbs. Wool produced, 1,815 ;  value, $1,052.
Horses, 281; value, $15,365 ; Oxen over four years old, 148; Steere under foor years old, 86; value of oxen and steers, $12,888; Milch Cows, 388; Heifera, 66; value of cows and  heifers, $10,272;  lbs. of
16
114.	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
TAUNTON.	BRISTOL   Co.

Butter  sold,  24,027 ; value, $8,408 ; lbs.  or Cheese,  1,900; value,
$380.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 200,000 ; value, $24,000. Pork, dressed, lbs., 124,li50 ; value, $18,682. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 10,000; value, $1,655. Veal, dressed, lbs., 24,182 ; value, $2,687.
Swine, 260 ; value, $8,861 ; value of Poultry sold, $8,240 ; value or Eggs sold, $6,528.


TAUNTON.

Cotton Mill8, 6 ; spindles, 88,812 ; lbs. of cotton  consumed, 1,548,006; groes value of etock ·used, $889,000 ; yarde of Cotton Cloth m'd, (Drillings, Shirtinge, Jeane, Tickings, Print Cloths uid Jean Checks,) 6,804,580 ; gross value,  $1,258,187 ; lbs•.or  Yarn  m'd uid  not  made into cloth, 216,000 ; groes value, $822,000 ; yards or Cotton Fluinel   m'd, 150,000 ; value, $75,000 ; cap., $495,000; m.  emp.,  259 ; £ , emp., 524.
Bolling,   Slitting,  and  Nail   Mille,  1; value   of  etock  used,   $400,000 ;
tons of iron m'd uid not  made  into  naile,  5,000 ; value,  $775,000 ;
cap., $150,000; 'hands emp., 230.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 5 ; '-value of stock used, $78,798 ; tons or hollow ware uid other castings m'd, 1,687 ; value, $211,894 ; cap., $84,500;  hands emp., 116.
Cotton Machinery,  establiehments  for  m.  of,  1; groee  value  or stock
used, $125,000 ; value of  machinery m'd,  $325,000 ; cap.,  $60,000 ;
hands emp., 250.
Locomotives uid Boilers, establiehments for m. ot; 2 ; value of stock used,  $625,000 ; locomotives  built,  73 ; value,  $1,525,000 ; cap.,
$318,500 ; hands emp., 590.
Files, establiehments for m. of, 2; value or stock used, $2,150; dozens of files m'd, 7,500; value, $12,000 ; cap., $4,800; hands emp., 18. Mechanics'  Tools  m'd  uid  not  elsewhere  enumerated,  gross   value,
$10,241; value of stock used, $4,611 ; cap., $7,000; hands emp., 11. Cutlery, establiehments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; Tobacco Cutters and Butcher's Steels m'd, 800 ; value, $400 ; cap.,
$1,800;  hands emp., 2.
Nuts  uid  Screws,  establiehments  for  m. of,  2 ; value  of stock used,
$9,750;  gross   or nuts   uid   Screws   m'd,   45,000 ; value,   $38,264 ;
cap., $105,000;  hands emp., 96.
1865.J	INDUSTRY   OF  MASSACHUSETTS.		·115 Ba1sTOL Co.	TAUNTON,
Tack and Brad Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $893,000 ; tons of tacks and brads m'd, 2,191; value,  $580,000; cap.,  $120,000 ; m. emp., 148 ; £ emp., 61.
Shovels, Spades, Forks, and Hoes, establishments for of, 1; value of stock used, $160,000; dozens of ·shovels, epades, forks, and hoes m'd, 17,246 ; value, $204,500; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., 83.
Metallic Gas Pipes, Water Pipes, and Steam Pipes, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $262,000 ; feet of pipe of various kinds m'd, 2,050,800 ; value, $447,000 ; cap., $51,000 ; bands emp., 91.
Copper, Yellow Metal, and Zinc Manufactories, 1; value of stock used,
$1,240,000 ; tons of copper m'd, 1,875 ; value, $1,694,000 ; copper ware m'd, (Copper Sheet, Bolts, Nails, Printer's Rolls, Kettle Bot­ toms, Yellow Metal,) lbs., 8,750,000 ; cap., $600,000 ; bands emp., 240.
Brass Foundries,  1; value of  stock used, $4,000 ; value of  Brass  Cast­
ings m'd, $5,000 ;. cap., $8,000;  hands emp., 2.
Britannia  Ware,  establishments  for  m. of,  8 ; value  of stock used,
$148,563 ; articles Britannia, German Silver, and Plated Ware m'd, 147,900 ; value, $877,083 ; cap., $127,000 •m. emp., 188 ; £ emp.,
148.
Hoop Skirt Tinnings, Lining Nails, LJhered Carpet Tacks, Coffin Tacks, Glaziers' Points, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $1,867.08;  value  of  articles  above  nam, $15,506.65 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; m. emp,; 6; £ emp., 19. '
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 8 ;value of stock used, $4,800 ; Newspapers and Periodicals printed, (Union Democrat & Gazette,  Daily Gazette, Bristol  County  Republican,)   8 ; 1daily,   2 weeklies  ;
gross value, $8,500 ; cap., $4,000 ; value of all other Printing done,
$7,300 ; cap., $12,000 ; m. emp., 19.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value of bookbinding done, $860; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp-., 1.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establillhments, 6, (returns from 5;) value of stock used, $2,567 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 20,852 ; value, $5,922 ; cap., $5,750 ; m. emp., 6 ; f. emp., 5.
Picture Frame Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value of articles m'd, $802; cap., $800 ; bands emp., 1.
Saddles and Harnesses, establishments for m. of, 4 ; harnesses m'd, 48 ;
value, $8,630 ; value of stock used, $5,800; cap., $2,850 ; bands emp., 8.
Ship Yards, 1; value of materials used, $5,000 ; Vessels launched, 1; tonnage, 165; value, exclusive of spars, rigging, and sails, $12,000 ; cap., $2,500; hands emp., 10.
116	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
T.A.UNTON,	BRISTQL   Co.

Sail Lofts, 1; Sails made of Am.  fabric,  5 ; value  of fabric,  $371.18; value of sails, $474.58; Sails made of foreign fabric, 3 ;  value  of fabric, $203.95 ; value of sails, $278.95 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2. Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chai8es, WagoDS, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments  for  m. o 5 ; number   m'd,  7  cars,   6 carriages  ;  value,
$8,172 ; value of stock used, $2,567 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 14. Confectionery, establishments for m. o 2 ; value of stock used, $7,500 ; lbs. of confectionery  made, 30,000 ; value,  $11,100; cap., $3,800 ;
m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 1.
Ink ?tlanufactories,  1; value  of stock used,  $200 ; value of ink m'd,
$400 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp., i.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 5 ; value of stock used, $58,900 ; value of clothing m'd, $86,900 ; cap., $16,000; m. emp., 21 ; f. emp., 69.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of Gravestones, Chimney Pieces, and Carvings m'd, $15,000 ; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 12.
Soap, establishments  for m. of, 5 ; value of  stock used,  $4,413; bbls.  of
soft soap m'd,  450 ; value,  $2,002 ; lbs.  of hard  soap  ro'd,  26,800 ;
value, $2,344; cap., $•3,860 ; hands emp., 8.
Master Builders, .12 ; Builditgs erected, 41 ; value, $63,500 ; value of materials used, $37,450 ; hands emp., 51,
Blacksmith Shope, 8; value of stock used, $9,160 ; value of work done,
$19,600 ; cap., $3,880;  hands einp., 21.
Arms,  establishments  for  m.  of, 1; value of litock  used, $170,000 ;
Springfield  Rifle Muakets m'd,  12,000 ; value,  $250,000 ; cap.,
$45,000 ; m. emp., 70.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 6 ; value of stock uaed, $8,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $14,192 ; cap., $8,800 ; bands emp.,  8.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; Hides tanned, 500 ; hides tanned and curried, 500 ; value of leather tanned  and  curried, $8,000 ; cap.,$1,500 ; bands emp., 2.
Enamelled  Cloth,  establishments  for  m. of, 2 ; value of stock   used,
$260,121; yards of enamelled cloth ro'd, 385,000 ; value, $270,000 ; yards of Enamelled Paper m'd, 80,000 ; value, $6,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; hands emp., (2 females,) 60. .	·
Boots, pairs of  all kinds m'd, 468 ; Shoes, pairs of  all  kincls  m'd,  178;
gross   value  of  stock   used,  $3,000;  value   of  boots   and  shoes m'd,
$6,425 ; cap., $1,200 ; m.emp., 8.
Brick Yards, 11 ; bricks m'd, 5,780,000 ; value, $46,040 ; cap., $9,900 ;
hands emp., 69.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	117
Ba1sTOL  Co.	TAUNTON.

Cigars m'd, 165,000 ; value, $5,775; value of stock used, $1,850 ; cap.,
$2,500 ; m. emp., 3.
Casks, establishments for m. o( 2 ; value of stock used, $17,500 ; casks
m'd, 170,000 ; value, $38,500 ; cap., $18,000 ; hands emp., 38.
St.one and Earthen Ware, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of stone  and  earthen  ware  m'd,  $5,000;  cap.,
$2,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, 2 ; value of stock  U88d,  $8,937 ;
coffins made, 679 ; value, $9,191 ; cap., $5,500; hands emp., 8.
Planing Mille and Establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of eaehee, doors and blinds m'd, $1,400 ; value of all other work done, $8,500 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 9.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $14,500 ; value
of wooden boxes made, $20,500 ; cap., $15,500; m. emp., 38.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value  of  stock  U88d,  $10,886 ; value
of gas m'd, $19,004 ; cap., $60,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establiahmenta for preservation of, 1; tona of ice pre­ served, 1,600;  value, $8,000 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 4.
Bakeries,   8 ; value   of   stock   U88d,   $16,500 ;   alue   of   Bread m'd,
$81,000 ; cap., $9,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 75,000 ; value, $600 ; hands emp.,

Coutwiee or Carrying Trade, vell!ela engaged in, 22 ; tonnage, 1,688 ; value, $63,490 ; amount received for freight, $87,581.92 ; hands emp., 72.
S.w  Mille,  6 ;  feet of Lumber prepared for market,   1,388,000 ; value, $28,280 ; Lathe, Clapboards,  Shingles,  and  Staves  prepared for market, 2,700,000; value, f!6,050 ; value of all other lumber, (10,000 groee prepared for matches,) $1,500; cap., $84,700 ; hands emp., 61.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords,  4,758;  value,  $18,652.
Raihoad Sleepers, 200; value, $100.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 2,000 ; value, $400.
Fume,  880;  acree,  22,860; value, including Buildings, $1,598,454 ;
acres of land improved, 10,163 ; per80D8 emp., 899.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 1,975.
Uaimprovable  Land, acres, 176.
Woodland, acres, 10,546;  value, $318,218.
Indian Corn, acres, 416f ; bush , 9,639 ; value, $9,640.
Wheat, acres, 9}; bush., 129 ; value, $258.
118	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
TAUNTON.	BRISTOL   Co.
 	.	
Rye, acres, 148 ; bush., 1,204}; value, $1,205.
Barley, acres, 25f  ; bush., 8121;  value, $818.
Oats, acres, !>2! ; bush., 906; value, $679.50.
Potatoes, acres, 859f ; bush., 26,882 ; value, $20,161.50.
Turnips, cultivated as a field crop, 24:i ; bush., 4,460 ; value, $1,486.67.
Onions, acres, lf ; bush., 140 ; value, $420.
Carrots, rods, 6; bush., 10 ; value,  $5.
Cabbage, acres, 9 ; value, $2,092.
Winter Squash, acres, lh ; value, $882.
Market  Gardening, acres, 8  ; value, $1,091.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 5f ; b11Sh., 896; value, $616.
Cranberries, acres, 221; bush., 86 ; value, $144.
English   Mowing,   acres, 8,807f  ; tons of  English  hay,  2,617!; value,
$78,517.50.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 682!; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 531f ; value,  $6,881.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 20,447 ; value of apples, $8,912 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,708 ; value of pears, $1,211; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 983 ; value, $425 ; value of Nuts. or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $120 ; value of Grapes, $350.
Sheep, 298 ; value, $1,512 ; lbe. of Wool, 1,057; value, $893.
Horses, 967 ; value, $122,258; Oxen over four years old, 132 ; Steers under four years old, 62; value of oxen and steers, $13,580 ; Milch Cows, 839 ; Heifers, 139 ; value of cows and heifers,  $3,827 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (15 Goats, 18 Bulls,) $910 ; gallons of  Milk sold, 58,046; value, $14,511.50 ; lbs. of  B.utter sold,
•  6,467 ; value,  $2,263.45 ; lbe. of Cheese, 2,320 ; value, $464.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 1,154,056; vallf@, $144,259.50. Pork, dressed, lbs., 230,530 ; value, $38,421.67. Mutton,  dressed,  lbs., 63,800 ; value, $12,760.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 76,700;  value, $11,505.
Swine, 1,333 ; value, $25,868 ; value of Poultry sold, $2,827 ; val'ue of Eggs sold, $1,641; lbe. of Honey, 131;  vl\,lue, $65.50.
Stove Lining and Fire Brick, establishments for m. of, 4 ; articles m'd,
884,664 ; value,  $47,538; value of stock,  $22,920 ; cap., $19,000 ;
m. emp., 48.
Pattern Shops, 1 ; value m'd,  $2,100 ; value of stock,  $225; capital,
$300 ; m. emp., 2.
Crucible .Works, 2 ;  value  articles   m'd,  $96,216.09 ; value  of  stock,
$60,000 ; cap., $30,000 ; m.emp., 14.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	119
BRISTOL   Co.	WESTPORT,

Sewing Machine Tables, Small Castings, and Tools, manu&ctories of, 1; value m'd, 25,660; value of stock, $15,000; cap., $12,000; m. emp., 20.
Steam Fan Blower Manufa.ctory, 1; value articles m'd, $7,000; value
of stock, $1,500 ; cap., $20,000; m. emp., 15.
Car Lining Manufactory, 1; square yards of lining m'd, 18,168 ; value,
$21,728 ; value of stock, $18,694 ; cap., $7,000; m. emp., 14,
Tripe Manufactory, 1; value  m'd,  $15,700; value  of stock,  $12,000 ; ·
cap., $1,700 ; hands emp., 7,


WESTPORT.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 1,958 ; lbs. cotton consumed, 450,000 ; gross value of stock used, $46,000; lbs. Yam m'd and not made into cloth, 12,000 ; value,  $48,000 ; lbs.  Cotton  Batting  m'd, 60,000 ; value,
$6,000; value of all other goods m'd, $6,500 ; cap., $12,000 ; m. emp., 18 ; £ emp., 20.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 12 ; value, $420 ; value of stock used, $800 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagone, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, I ; wagons m'd, 8 ; value, $700; value of stock used, 400 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shope, 5 ; value of stock used, $1,425 ; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Boote, pairs of all kinds m'd, 45 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd,  150 ;. gross value of stock used, $800 ; value of boots and shoes m'd $\75 ; cap.,  $200 ; m. emp., 2.	·
Whale Fishery, vessels emp., in, l O ; tonnage, 1,940 ; gallons Sperm Oil imported, 67,200; value, $119,860 ; lbs, Whalebone imported, 6,500 ;.value, $8,825; cap., $197,000 ; hands emp., 287.
Tautog and Lobster Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 4 ; tonnage, 85 ; value of tautog and Jobsten taken, $8,500 ; value of tautog and bluefish taken in boats, $2,612 ; hands emp., 24.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, SO ; value, $80.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 5,000 ; value, $50.
Coastwiee or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 1; tonnage, 66 ; value,
S3,a00 ; amount received for freight, $600 ; hands emp., 4.
Saw Mills, 8; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  365,000 ; value,
$5,800 ; hands em 8.
120	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
WESTPORT.	BmsToL  Co.

Firewood and Bark, cords prepared for market, 81088; value, $9,523 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 2,100; value, $295.
Farms, 345 ; acres, 15,257 ; value of ea.me, including Buildings, $601,- 220; acres of land improved, 5,434; persons emp., 467.
Unimproved Land, acres, 6,837. Unimprovt\ble Land, &ere11, 2,504. Woodland, acres, 7,0761; value,  $112,810.
Indian Corn, acres, 6491; bush., 20,009; value, $30101 .50. Wheat, acres, 20!; bush., 828 ; value, $821.
Rye, acres, 18; bush., 314; value, $471. Barley, acres, 2121; bush., 5,196; value, $6,495. Buckwheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 60 ; value, $60.
Oats, acres, 248; bush., 7,272 ;" value, $6,544. Potatoes,  acres, 147f   ; bush.,  17,558;   value, $15,802.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a field  crop, acres, 61f ; bush., 18,369 ; value,
$7,347.	.
Onions, acres, 12! ; bush., 2,954 ; value, $5,908. Carrots, acres, 2!; bush., 786 ; value, $275.
Cabbage, acres, 2f ; value, $390.
Market Gardening, acres, 14!; value of products, $2,750.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2J ; bush., 850 ; value,
$255.
Flax, lbs., 2 ; value, $1. Tobacco, lbs., 720 ; value, $252.
Cranberries, acres, 30f ; bush., 534; value, $1,335.
English  Mowing,  acres,  8,826 ;  tons  of  tnslil!h  hay, 2,738;  value,
•  $i0,236.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 68 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 491; value, $495.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 854; tons of salt hay, 262 ; value, $2,600. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,438; value ·of  apples,  $2,191;
Pear-trees   cultivated  for  their fruit, 686 ; value of  pea.rs, $207 ; all
other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,913; value of fruit, $736 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $1,164.
Sheep, 1,808; value, $6,049 ; lbs. Wool, 8,752 ; value, $3,306.
Horses, 357 ; value, $25,850 ; Oxen over four years old, 269 ; Steers under four years old, 94; value of oxen and steers, $26,050 ; Milch Cows, 778 ; Heifers, 124; value of cows and heifers, $37,255; value of-Neat Stoc not embraced above, (17 Bulls,) $417; gallons of Milk sold,  14,668;   value,  $2,876;  lbs. of Butter  sold, 21,758; value,
$8,708;  lbs. of  Cheese, 8,711;  value, $780.  •	·
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSAOHUSETTS.	121
DUKES  Co.	Cun.:w.aB:.

Bee( dressed, lbs., 500,685 ; 'l'alue, $60,079. Pork, dreesed, lbs., 168,845; value, $32,892. Mmton, dreued, lbe. 9,876·; value, $1,288. VeaJ, dressed, lbs., 23,247 ; value, $2,801.
Swine, 892; value, $7,549 ; Talue of Poultry sold, $6,231; value of E,ggs BOid $10,126; lbs. of Honey, 51.2; value, $158 ; Iba. of Bees­ wax, 16; value, $6; Ta111e of unenumerated articles of Fann Produoe, $557.
Cloth m'd in the family, yards, 870; value, $781; value of all other articles m'd in Ule amily for aale and not before enumerated, $107. Establishments  for manufacture  of articles 8°' elsewhere enumerated,
(Turning Mill,) 1 ; Spokes turned, 5,600 ; value, $600; value of
stock uae4, $200; eap., $2,000; m. e111p., 1.



D U K E S C O U N T Y .


CHILMARK.
.Master Builders, 1; Bulldinga erected, i ; value,  $1,000 ; value of
materials med, $700 ; hands emp., 6••
Blacksmith Shope, 1; value of skd 1111811, $165; value of work done,
$850 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
White Lead and other Paints, 418tabli8hmentB -'or m. 1; value of stock used, $100 ; tooa of red anc1 ,eUow Capei Paint m'd, j() ; value, •1,200 ; cap., $6,000; haocle eap., 8.
Alewives, Shad, and 6almoa taken, 80,000 ; value, $800; :hands emp., 5. Firewood and Bark prei-ed fAr  nmket, eardl, 80; valu.e,  $150.
Paint Ore and White Clay Beds, 7; value mined, .$8,700 ; ca,$4,000 ;
hands emp., 5.
Farms, 106 ; acres, 9,916 ; value, including Buildings, $230,594:; acres
of land improved, 6,675 ; penons emp., 100.
Unimproved Land, aeree, 1,930 Unimprovable Land, acres, 610. Woodland, acres, 520 ; value, $11,890.
Indian Coru, acres, 141; bush., 4:,888; value, $6,574.
Rye, acres, 18 ; bush., 188; value, $282.
Barley, acres, 1; bush., 20 ; value, $80.
18
122	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
EDGARTOWN.	DUK.Es Co.

Oats, acres, 89 ; bush., 1,884 ; value, $1,814.
Potatoes, acres, 87 ; bush., 8,705 ; value, $1,907.
Turnips,  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  71;   bash.,  2,015;   value,
$404.
Onions, acres, l; bush., 112 ; value, $175.
Beets and other escolent vegetables, acres, i; bush., 75 ; value, 118.
Cranberries, acres, l ; bush., 8 ; value, $20.
English  Mowing,  acres,  474 ;  tons  of   English  bay,   515 ; value,
$10,805.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 187 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  121; value, $1,304.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 117 ; tons of salt hay, 120 ; value, $1,4:18.
Apple-trees cultivated for their mut, 1,538 ; value of apples, $842 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their mut, 190 ; value of pears,  $29; all other trees cultivated for their mut, 195; value of  mut,  $26 ; value of  Nute or Berries cultivated or gathered  for market, $48.
Merino Sheep, of di1Ferent grades, 8,506; value, $10,518; lbs. of Wool, 9,770 ; value, $10,603.
Horses, 89 ; value, $6,805 ; Oxen over four  years  old,  74 ; Steers under four years old, 120 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,693; Milch Cows, 212 ; Heifers, 137 ; value of cows and beifen,  $9,616;  value  of Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulle,) $100 ; gallons of Milk sold, 188 ; value, $87.70 ; lbs. Butter aold, 4,799 ; value, $1,599 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,254 ; valutt $205.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 58,664 ; value, $6,893. Pork, dressed, lbs., 2,834 ; value, $3,906. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 5,468; value, $651. Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,605;  value, $150.
Swine, 22 ; value, $414 ; value of Poultry sold, $417 ; value of Eggs sold, $766; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $4.50. Value of  artielee m'd in the family for sale and not   before    enumerated,
$202.



EDGARTOWN.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $500; newspapers and periodicale printed. (Vineyard Gazette,) 1; issued weekly ; gross v&.lue, $800 ; cap., $1,500 ; value of all other printing done,  $175 ; m.  emp., 8.
1866.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	123
DUl[Bs Co.	EDGARTOWN.

Dagnerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$800 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 8,200 ; value, $1,800 ;
cap., $1,250 ; m. emp., 3.
Boats, establishments for m. ot; 2 ; value of mat.erials used, $860 ; boats built, 4 ; value, $790 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
SailJ,ofts, 1; Sails  made  of  Am.  fabric,   7 ; value   of  fabric, $575;
value of sails, $1,000; sails made of foreign fabric,  15; value  of fabric, $575;  value of  sails, $1,000;  cap., $8,000 ; hands emp.,  2.
Salt, establishments for m. ot; 1; bush.  m'd, 150 ; value,  $180 ; cap.,
$200; hadl!s emp., 1.
Clothing,  establishments  for  m.  ot;  2 ; value   of  stock   used, $1,600;
value of clothing m'd, $2,200 ; cap., $1,700 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 4.
Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 9 ; value, $1,850; valu of materials used, $1,200 ; hands emp., 4.
Blacksmith Shope, 1; value of stock used, $700 ; value  of work done,
$900 ; cap., $1,200; hands emp.; 2.
Tin Ware Manofactories, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; value of tin ware m'd, $350 ; cap., $600; hands emp., 1.
Boota, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 100 ; gross value of stock used, $300 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $500 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp.,  1.
Blocks and Pumpe, establishments  for  m. ot; 2 ; value  of stock used,
$75; value of blocks and pomps m'd, $250 ; cap., $1,300; hands emp., 2.	.   •
O>flins and  Burial  Cases  of all kinds,  manofactories  of, 1; value  of
stock used,  $125;  coffins made, 20; value, $850;  cap., $625 ; hands
emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments for  preservation   of,  1; tons  of  ice   pre­
eerved, 300 ; value, $450 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., I.
Whale Fishery, veeaela emp. in, 6 ;- tonnage, 2,288 ; gallons of Sperm Oil imported, 20,000 ; value, $40,000 ; gallons of Whale Oil import.ed, 27,000 ; value, $28,000 ; lbs. of Spermaceti import.ed, 15,000; value,
$6,000; lbs. of  Whalebone import.ed,  12,000; value,  $21,000; cap.,
$220,000 ; hands emp., 180.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, 200 ; value, $100.
Alewives taken, 558,000 ; value_ $4,416 ; hands emp. 2i months, 6,
Coutwi,e or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 2 ; toruiage,  818; value, $15,000; amount received for freight, $10,000 ; hands  emp., 12.
Yaewood and Bark prepared for	ket, cords, 250 ; value,  $1,550.
•
124:	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
EDGA.BTOWN.	DUKES  Co.

Farms, 125; acres, 7,958; value, including Buildings, $168,695 ; acres of land improved, 7,958; pel'80ns emp., 129.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,657. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,312, Woodland, acres, S,188 ; value, $32,866.
Indian Com, acres, 266 ; bush., 5,705; value, $11,410.
Rye, acres, 108 ; bush., 620; value, $1,240. Barley, acres, 15 ; bush., 279 ; value, $558. Oats,	, 57 ; bush., 958 ; value, $900.
Potatoes, acres, 86 ; bush., 5,329 ; value, $4,724.	•
Tnmips  cultivated  as a field crop, acres, 35 ; bush., 4,778 ; value,
$2,364.
Onjons, acres, 7 ; bush., 1,140 ; value, $2,200.
Carrom, acres, 4 ; bush., 865 ; value, $432.
Market Gardening, acres, 1; value of products, $170.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 21; bush., 450 ;   value,
$225.
Tobacco, acres, i; lbs., 800 ; value, $150. Cranberries, acres, 12 ; bush., 298; value, $894.
English Mowing, acres, 448; tons of English hay, 444; value, $11,100.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 180; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 172 ; value, $2,680.
·Salt Marsh mown, acres, urn ; tons of  B&lt hay, 162 ; value, $1,620.
Apple-trees cultivated for their. fruit, 719 ; value of apples, $872 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 50 ; value of pears, $63 ; aH other trees cultivated fur their fruit, 100; value of fruii, $60; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $630.
Sheep, (Native, with a mixture of Merino,) 712 ; value, $3,200 ; Iba.
Wool produced, 1,424; value, $1,566.
Horses, 109 ; value, $7,280 ; Oxen over four years old, 75; Steers under four years old, 71 ; value of oxen and l!1eer8, $5,880 ; Milch Cows, 240 ; Heifers, 81; value of cows and heifers, $8,796; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (2 Ayrshire BullB,) $150; gal­ lons of Milk sold, 8,136 ; value, $1,952 ; lbs. Butter sold, 2,570 ; value, $1,285.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 15,530 ; value, $1,5fl0.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 66,165 ; value, $11,048. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,190 ; value, $260. Veal, dressed, lbs., 975 ; value, $78.
Swine, 122 ;value, $1,147; value of Poultry sold, $530; value of Eggs
sold, $1,250.	•
INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	125
DUKES  Co.	GOSNOLD,


GOSNOLD.
Farms, 13; acres, ·8,801;  value,  including  Buildings,   $99.,447 ; acre$
of land improved, 5,480 ; persons emp., 25. Unimproved Land, acres, 7,061.
Uniaprovable Land, acres, 100.
Woodland, acres, 8,400 ; value, $40,886. Indian Corn, acres, 82 ; bush., 855; value, $855. Barley, acres, 2 ; bush., 50; value, $50.
Oats, acres, 28 ; bush., 550 ; value, $275. Potatoes, acres, 22!; bush., 1,495; value, $747.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, IO , bush., 2,000 ; value, $800,
Cranberries, acres, 1; bush., 15 ; value, $80.
English Mowing, acres, 240; tons English bay, 167; value, $2,140. Salt Marsh mown, acres, 85 ; salt hay, tons, 82 ; value, $320.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 60 ; value of apples, $25 ; Pear- •
trees cultivated for their fruit, 12 ; value of the pears, $5.
Sheep, 8,928; gross value, $18,748; lbs. Wool, 9,867; value, $9,867. Hones, 33; value, $2,460 ; Asses and Mules, 1; value, $75; Oxen over four years old, 84 ; Steers under four years old, 29 ; value of oxen and steers,  $2,075 ; Milch  Cows,  58;  Heifers, 21;  value, of  cows and heifers, $1,590;  gallons  of   Milk  sold,  250; value,
$50 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 250 ; value, $75 ; lbs. of Cheese, I00 ; value, $20.
Beef; dressed, lbs., 11,020 ; value, $1,102. Pork, dressed, lbs., 7,900 ; value, $1,422, Motton, dressed, lbs., 12,775; value, $1,277.50. Veal, dressed, lbs., G90 ; value, $82.80.
Swine, 49 ; value, $785; value of Poultry eold, $350 ; value of Eggs
sold, $60 ; value unenumerated articles of farm produce, $200.


TISBURY.
Woollcn Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 1; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 3,000 ; gross value of stock used, $4,000 ; yards of Satinet4 m'd, 1,500; value, $1,900 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 1,000; value, $750 ; lbs. of woollen yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 1,130 ; value, $2,260 ; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 2.
Blacksmith  Shops, 3 ; value of  stock used,  $950 ; value  of  work  done,
$1,900; cap., $950 ; hands emp., 4.	·
126	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.

TISBURY.	Dux.Es Co.

Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; value of tin ware m'd, $500 ; cap., $250 ; hands emp., 1.
Tanning an4 Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ;	• Hides tanned, 750 ; bides tanned and curried, 750 ; value of leather tanned and curried, $10,250 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Boots, pairs of  all kinds m'd,  62;  Shoes,  pairs  of all kinds  m'd,  125 ;
gross  value   of  stock  used,   $500 ; value  of  boots   and  shoes  m'd,
$1,022 ; m. emp., 6.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds,  manufactories  of,  2 ; value of  stock used, $200 ; coffins made, 20 ; value, $400 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 4.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; cap., $5,950 ; bands emp.,8.
Whale Fishery, vessels emp:in, I ; tonnage, 250 ; gallons of Sperm Oil imported, 18,875 ; value, $36,750.
Cod Fish, quintals taken, 482 ; value, $8,856 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Herring taken, 255,000 ; value, $15,300 ; bands emp., 100.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 5 ; tonnage, 216 ; value, $10,000 ; amount received for freight, $14,100 ; hands emp., 15.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 960 ; value, $7,680 ; hands emp., 15.
Com aud  other  Brooms  m'd,  750 ; value,  $225; value of stock con­
sumed, $150 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Farms,   125  ;  acres,   10,157  ;   value,  including · Buildings,    $214,040 ;
acres improved, 5,481; persons emp., 875. Unimproved  Land, acres, 4,550.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,414. Woodland, acres, 4,550 ; value, $68,250.
Indian Corn, acres, 149 ; bush., 4,487 ; value, $6,655.
Rye, acres, 86; bush., 481; value, $781. Barley, acres, If ; bush., 31; value, S31. Oats, acres, 54 ; bush., 1,044 ; value, $125.25.
Potatoes, acres, 62;  bush., 5,705;  value, $4,278.75.
Turnips cultivated  81! a field crop, acres, 28;  bush., 2,173;  value,   $469.
,.Onions, acres, I ; bush., 155 ; value, $271. Carrots, acres, 2!; bush., 435 ; value, $160. Cranberries, acres, 20 ; bush., 469 ; value, $1,642.
English  Mowing,  acres,   44:0 ;  tons  of   English  bay,   553 ;  value,
$18,825.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 90!; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 182 ; value, $1,680.	·
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	127
EssEX Co.	AxESBURY.

Salt Marsh mown, acree, 911; tons of 1181t hay, 106; value, $1,800.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,885 ; value of apples, $2,116 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 902 ; value of pears, $856; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,972 ; value of fruit, j523 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $298.
Sheep, 2,182; gross value, $7,687 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 6,580 ; value,
$6,580.
Hones, 104 ; value, $10,400 ; Oxen over four years old, 82 ; Steers under four years old, .46; value of oxen and steers, $4,000 ; Milcli Cows, 201; Heifers, 87; value of cows and heifers,  $8,780 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (3 Bulle, 50 Calves,) $800 ; gallons of Milk 801d, 7,615 ; value, $457 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,110 ; value, $2,844 ; lbs. of Cheese, 200 ; value, $40.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 65,000; value, $6,500.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 27,704; value, $4,155. Motton, dressed, lbs., 5,596 ; value, $559.60. Vea1, dressed, lbs., 8,050 ; value, $305.
Swine, 167 ; value, $1,540; value of Poultry sold, $716; value of Eggs sold,  $454.40 ; value  of unenumerated  articles  of  Farm Produce,
$526.
Grist Mills, 2 ; value, $2,000 ; bush. Com ground, 4,000.
Dog Fish Oil prepared, gallons, 1,150 ; value, $1,450;  m. emp., 20.
Barrels of  Fish caught  in  weirs  and  seines,  10,000 ; value  of  seines,
&c., $2,000 ; hands emp., 50 ; value of fish caught, $10,000.

- -      -            c:._:=================
E SS E X  C O U N T Y .


AMESBURY.
Woollen Mille, D ; sets of machinery, 46 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ nmed, 887,000 ; groea value of stock used, $1,257,500 ; yards of Broadcloth m'd, 500,000; value, $750,000 ;. yards of Caseimere m'd, •
-t75,000 ; value,  $598,750 ; yards of  Satinet m'd, 94,650 ; value,
$70,172 ; m. emp., 270; £ emp., 872.
Dagoerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$600; dagueneotypee and photographs taken, 8,000 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $800 ;m. emp., 2.
128	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
llESBURY.	EssE:x: Co.

Harnesses, establishments fbr m. of, 8 ; ha.rneeeee m'd, 100 ; vale,
$3,000 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Hat and Cap Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $147,765 ; hats and caps m'd, 324,900 ; value, $211,091.57 ; cap,., $51,875; m. emp., 72 ;
f. emp., 58.
Railroad Car8, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs; and other vehicles, establishments   for  m. of,   18;  number  of   each  m'd,   165  Wagons,
1,242 Buggies and Carryalls,  80 Sleighs ; value,  $288,160 ;  value of stock used, $119,000 ; cap., $85,000 ; hands emp., 140.
Carriage Wheels, manufaetories of, 1; value of stock used, $10,000; wheels m'd, 9,200 ;·value, $23,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 25. Blacksmith  Shops, 21 ; value of  stock  used, $4:,500 ; value of work
·  done, $9,000 ; cap., $2,800 ; bands emp., 20.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 87,740 ; Shoes, pa.ire of all kinds m'd, 25,740 ; gross value of stock used, $41,813; value of boots and shoes m'd, $52,607 ; cap., $28,500 ; m. emp., 69 ; £ emp., 87.
Stone and Earthen Ware, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, 420 ; value of stone and earthen ware, m'd, $1,550 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 1.
lee for market, establishments for preservation of, 2 ; tons preserved, 850 ; value, ·$525 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.	_ Saw  Mills; 8; feet  of  Lumber  prepared for  market, 489,000 ; value,
$9,075 ; Shingles prepared for market, 25,000 ; value, $1,000 ; cap.
$4,000;  hands emp., 4:.	·
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,500 ; value, $7,500 ; cap., 8,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Farms, 142 ; acres, 7,610 ; value, including Buildings, $265,080 ; acres
of land improved, 7,185 ; persons emp., 185. Unimproved, Land acres, 425.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 280. Woodland,  acres,  1,113;  value,  $55,650.
Indian·Corn, acres, 2,000 ; bush., 7,860 ; value, $7,964.
Rye, acres, 1Ti ; bush., 809 ; value, $411. Barley, acres, 471; bush., 940 ; value, $1,060. Oats, acres, 15; bush., 288 ; value, $210.
Potatoes, acres, 155;  bush., 10,821;  value, $7,190.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, aeres, 9; bush., 800 ; value, $140. Onions, acres, 6 ; bush., 470 ; value, $470.
Cabbage, acres, 5 ; value, $UO. Winter Squash, acres, 2 ; value, $200.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,035 ; tons  of  English hay, 965 ; value,
$16,980.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.
EssEx Co.	ANDOYER.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 195 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 242 ; value, $2,080.
Apple-tree8 cultivated for their fruit, li,890 ; value of apples, $5,451; Pear-trees cultivated for  their fruit, 575 ; value of  pears,  $815.
Sheep, 150 ; gross value of all sheep, $650 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 620 ; value, $250.
Horses, 234 ; value, $20,370; Oxen over four years old, 138 ; Steers  under four yll&rs old, 52 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,740 ; Milch Cows, 375 ; Heifers, 55 ; value of cows and heifers, $12,900 ; value Neat Stock not embraced above, (Bulls, 1 and 2 years old,) $1,000 ; gallons of Milk sold, 21,897 ; value, $4,418;  lbs.  of  Butter  sold,  2,185 ; value,  $698 ; lbs. of Cheese, 2,300 ;  value, $295.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 209,900 ; value, $23,729. Pork, dressed, lbs., 91,100; value, $18,220. Motton, dressed, lbs., 10,250; value ; $2,000. Veal, lbs., 16,250 ; value, $2,500.
Swine, 30Q ; value, $4,250 ; value of Poultry sold, $460 ; value of Eggs sold, $950 ; lbs. of Honey, 200 ; value, $100 ; unenumerated articles of farm produce, $4,700.
Grist Mills, 1; bush., Grain ground, 7,443;  value, $12,281.
Brick Yants, 1; number of bricks made, 500,000 ; value, $5,000 ; -eap., S3,000 ; hands emp., 7.



ANDOVER.

Tow  and  Flax,  establishments  for  m.  of,  4 ;  value  of  stock  used,
$267,306; lbs. m'd, 584,582 ; value, $584,613; cap.,$120,000 ; m. emp., 100 ; f. emp., 150.
Woollen Mills, 5 ; sets of machinery, 24 ; lbs. of scoured wool con­ sumed, 500,000 ; gross value of stock used, $600,000 ; yards of Fancy Woollens m'd, 500,000 ; value, $475,000 ; yanls of Flannel or Blanketing m'd, 850,000; value, $475,000 ; cap., $200,000 ; m.emp., 212 ; £ emp., 188.
Stec establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $21,158 ; tons of steel m'd, 292 ; value, $87,600 ; cap., $200,000 ; hands emp., 00. Files, establishments for m. o( 1; value of stock used, $74,928 ; dozens of files m'd, 320,954 ; value, S299,751; cap., S500,000 ; hands emp.,
850.	.
11
.
130	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
ANDOVER.	Essu:  Co.

Printing and Newspaper Establishments,* l ; value of stock used, $1,500; newspapers and periodicals printed, i weekly, 1 quarterly ; gross value, $5,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; Books printed, 236,125 ; value of the
printing done on the same, $4,087 ; cap. invested in printing, $10,0(,() ; m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 13.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; value of bookbinding done, $800 ; cap., $600 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1.
Book Publishing Establishments,• 1 ; books published, 1,030.
Type and  Stereotype  Foundries,•  1; value  of  types,  electrotypes,  and
stereotype plates m'd, including composition  of  the type,  $5,000.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1 ; value of stock used,.
$300 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 3,600 ; value, $1,000 ;
•  cap , $250 ; m. emp., 1.	'
Ink  Manufactories,  1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of  Lamp
Black, $8,000; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 3.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,400 ; value of clothing m'd, $3,796; cap., $1,600 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 3. Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,010; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 850 ; value, $4,250 ; lbs. of' hard soap m'd, 120,000 ; value, $18,000 ; value of all other  soaps  m'd,  $600 ; cap., $7,500 ;
hands emp., 5.
Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 46 ; value, $64,400 ; value of materials used, $46,600; hands emp., 45.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,000 ; valueof work done,
$3,000 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp.,  4,
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $150 ; value of tin ware m'd, $800 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1,
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 300 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 42,820 ;
gross value of stock used, $6,50 ; value of boots  and  shoes m'd,
$18,900 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 18; f. emp., 88.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for m. of,  1 ; value  of stock used,
$300 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Coffins  and  Burial  Cases  of  all  kinds,  manufact.oriee  of,  1; value of
stock  used,  $785 ; coffins  made,  137 ; value,  $2,529 ; cap.,  $300 ;
hands emp., 1.	·
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of  stock used,  $1,500 ; value
.of  wooden boxes made, $3,000;  cap., $800 ; m. emp.,  2.

•The Printing 08lce of  .AndoYer la a Ne,npaper and  Book  Office combined.    Steno­
·WUC la abo done illthe 1&111e ; hence the amonnta are not eeparate illall -.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	181
·EssEx  Co.	ANDOVER.

Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 8 ; tons of ice pre­ served, 18,800 ; value, $12,700 ; cap., $7,500 ; hands emp., 10.
Saw Mills, 4 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market, 560,000 ; value,
$10,080 ; cap., $7,600 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,795 ; value, $11,858. Farms, 175; acres, 18,014; value, including Buildings, $625,064 ; acres of land improved, 6,955 ; persons emp., 812.	•
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,888. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 420. Woodland,  acres, 1,801 ; value,  $130,100.
Indian Corn, acres, 196 ; bush., 8,909 ; value, $13,336.
Wheat, acres, 2l ; bush., 29 ; value, $72. Rye, acres, 63!; bush., 270; value, $405. Barley, acres, 32 ; buy., 798 ; value, $1,197. Oats, acres, 115 ; bush., 2,679 ; value, $2,060.
Potatoes, acres, 214 ; bush., 19,183; value, $17,264.
Tumips cultivated as a field crop, acres, l ; bush., 75 ; value, $30.
Onions, acres, i; bush., 290 ; value, $80.. Carrots, acres, i ; bosh., 419 ; value, $167. C,abbe.ge, acres, 17 ; value,  $3,800.
Winter Squash, acres, ll ; value, $125.
Market Gardening, acres, 21;  value of  products, $3,150.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, 7 ; bush., 690; value, $510.
Cranberries, acres, 24 ; bush., 125; value, $372.
English Mowing, acres, 1,993 ; tons English hay, 1,856 ; value, 549,912.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 729 ; tons of wet meadow   or swale
hay, 519 ; value, $6,228.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 15,600 ; value of apples, $10,586 ; Pear-trees cultivated  for their  fruit, 768; value  of pears,  $270; value of  Berries gathered  for market,  $1,270.
Sheep, 19 ; value, $133; lbs. of Wool produced, 70 ; value,  $42.
Horsee, 304; value, $25,785 ; Oxen over four years old, 166 ; Steers under four years old, 6 ; value of oxen and steers, $14,160 ; Milch Cows, 673; Heifers, 102 ; value of cows and heifers, $30,948 ; gallons of Milk sold, 84,900 ; value, $13,584 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 976 ; value, $390.	·
Beet; dressed, lbs-, 365,800 ; value, $36,530.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 76,765 ; value, $12,865. Motton, dressed, lbs., 17,248 ; value, $1,724. Vea1, dressed, lbs., 25,200 ; value,  $4,200.
Swine, 104 ; value, $1,840 ; value of Poultry sold, $150 ; value of Eggs sold, $668 ; lbs. of Honey, 800 ; value, $75.
132	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
BEVERLY,	EssEx  Co.


BEVERLY.

Printing  and  Newspaper  Establishments,   1;  value   of  stock   used,
$350 ; newspapers and periodicals printed, (Beverly Citizen,) 1 ; issued weekly ; gross value, $1,400; cap., $600 ; value of all other rinting done, $350 ; m. emp., 3.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of,  1 ;  har­ nesses m'd, 10; value, $500 ; value of stock used, $200; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Sail Lofts, 1; sails made of American fabric, 5 ; value of fabric, $900 ;
value of sails, $1,100 ; sails made of foreign fabric,  4 ; value of  fab­
ric, $1,079 ; value  of sails, $1,379 ; cap., $500; hands emp.,  2.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock  used,  $608 ; lbs. of tallow candles	7,000 ; ,·alue, $932 ; cap., $600; hands emp., 8.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1;  value  of  stock  used,  $209 ; lbs. of bu.rd  soap m'd,  19,800 ; value, $900.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $2,950 ; value of  work done, $6,300 ; cap., $1,950 ; hands emp., 9.
Cabinet Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $13,000 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $35,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 60.
Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 382,700 ; gross value of stock used, 827,500 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $518,800 ; cap.,  $84,500 ; m. emp., 294 ; £ emp., 200.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 400,000 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $2,000; hands emp., 7.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments for the m. of, 1; vulue  of  stock used, $150; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $800 ; cap.,  $200 ; hands emp., 1.
-Coffins and Burial Cases of  all  kinds, manufactories  of,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $800 ;  coffins  made,   100 ; value,  $1,200 ; cap.,  $500 ;
,hands emp., 1.
.Planing Mills and Establishments for the m. of Su.shes, Doors,  and Blinds,  1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; cap., $13,000 ; hands emp.,   6.
,Gas,  establishments  for  the  m.  of,  1; value  of stock  used, $4,000 ;
.vu.lue of  gu.s m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $40,000 ;' hands emp., 3.
lee for market, establishments for preservation of, 2 ; tons presen'lld, 2,200 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 6.	·
:Bakeries,  1;  value  of  stock  used,   $10,000 ;  value  of  Bread  m'd,
$13,000; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 5.
·;
1865.J	L DUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	133

EssEx   Co.	BEVERLY.

Whale Fishery, vessels emp. in, 2 ; tonnage, 220 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands
emp., 25.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 24 ; tonnage, 25,000 ; qtls. of Codfish taken, 23,750 ; value, $166,250 ; value of Cod Liver Oil sold, $18,630 ; value of salt consumed, $23,029.50 ; cap., $130,- 529 ; hands emp., 248.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 5 ; tonnage, 1,000 ; value, $50,000 ; amount received for freight, $106,000 ; hands emp., 60.
Firewood, cords prepared for market, 300 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 10.
Farms, 102 ; acres, 7,425; value, including Buildings, $1,719,250 ; acres improved, 7,407 ; persons emp., 225.
'C'nimproved Land, aciis, 7. Unimprovable Land, acres, 11. Woodland, acres, 1,866 ; value, $7,500.
Indian Corn, acres, 106 ; bush ., 3,656 ; value, $4,570. Wheat, acres, \ ; bush., 6 ; value, $12.
Rye, acres, 5 ; bush., 105; value,  $210.
Potatoes,. acres, 94 ; bush., 10,743 ; value, $8,046.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 7 ; bush., 2,008; value, $602. Onions, acres, 3; bush., 371 ; value, $742:
Carrots, acres, 5 ;.bush., 2,000 ; value, $600. Cabbage, acres, 23 ; value, $2,586.
Winter Squash, acres,	; value, $50. Market Gardening, acres, 86 ; value, $8,600.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 1; bush., 820 ; value, $150. English  Mowing,  acres,  1,111i;  tons  of  English hay,  1,115 ; value,
$23,050.
Wet Icadow or Swale mown, acres, 180 ; ions wet meadow or swale hay, 171 ; value, $1,880.
Salt :Marsh mown, acres, 67 ; tons salt hay, 82 ; value, $1,148.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,851 ; value of apples, $5,510 ; Pear-trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit, 2,074 ; value  of  pears, $563.
Sheep. 20 ; value, $250 ; lbs. of  Wool produced, 83; value, $150.
Horses, 810 ; value, $25,150 ; Oxen over four years old, 46 ; Steers under four years old, 18; value of oxen and steers, $2,500 ; Milch Cows, 459 ; Heifers, 76 ; value of cows and heifers, $24,750 ; gallons of Milk sold, 27,890; value, $4,486 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 6,465; value, $2,483.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 6,000 ; valu.$900•
•
134	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.

BOXFORD.	EssEx Co.

Pork, dressed, lbs., 58,000 ; value, $9,680. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 4,000 ; value, $500. Veal, dressed, lbs., 12,000; value, $1,200.
Swine, 229 ; ·value, $2,000 ; value of Poultry sold, $180 ; value of Eggs sold, $5,800 ; lbs. of Honey, 380; value, $170.


BOXFORD.

Last and Shoe-peg ManufactorieR, 1; value of stock used, $280 ; bush., shoe-pegs m'd, 1,000;  value, $1,000 ; cap., $280 ; hands  emp., 2.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,100 ; value of wooden boxes, m'd, $3,000 ; cap., $2,100; hands mp., 2.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for  market,  625,000 ; value,
$12,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,900 ; value, $7,000; hands emp., 20.
Farms, 125;  acres, 10,570; value, including Buildings, $407,970;  acres
improved, 6,158; persons emp., 155. Unimproved Land, acres, 1,900.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 300. Woodland, acres, 2,212 ; value, $100,000.
Indian Com, acres, 214 ; bush., 5,470; value, $8,750. Rye, acres, 6 ; bush., 56 ; value, $112.
Barley, acres, 28 ; busµ., 417 ; value, $625.50. Buckwheat, 3 ; bush., 20 ; value, $30.
Oats, acres, 69 ; bush., 1,379 ; value, $1,236.10. Potatoes, acres, 87 ; bush., 8,121; value, $6,496.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2!; bush., 570; value, $425. Cabbage, acres, l; value, $60.
Cranberries, acres, 10 ; bush., 10; value, $30.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,332;  tons  of   English  hay,  869 ;   value,
$26,070; bush., grass or clover seed, 60; value, $75.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 901 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 669 ; value, $6,690.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 176 ; tons salt hay, 186 ; value, $2,790.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,700 ; value of apples, $4,800 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 169 ; value of pears, $55 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 75; value of fruit, $115; value
of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gath•ered for market, $50•
..
•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	18
Essu:  Co.	BRADFORD,

Sheep, 885 ; gross value, $2,010 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,246 ; value,
$996.80.
Horses, 185 ; value, $10,800 ;_ Oxen over four years old, 146 ; St.eers under four years old, 50; value of oxen and st.eers, $12,250 ; Milch Cows, 852 ; Heifers, 50 ; value of cows and heifers, $14,680 ; value of  Neat  Stock  not   embraced  above,  (8  Bulls,)   $240 ;  gallons of Milk sold, 10,689 ; value, $1,710 ; lbs. of Butt.er sold, 8,580; value,
$4,000 ; lbs. of Cheese, 900 ; value, $185.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 26,620 ; value, $2,662. Pork, dressed, lbs., 45,855 ; value, $7,710. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 8,000 ; value, $800. Veal, dressed, lbs., 6,000 ; value, $720.
Swine, 79 ; value, $790 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,489 ; value of Eggs sold, $1;048 ; lbs. of Honey, 105 ; value, $85; lbs. Beeswax, 10; value, $7 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, (30 bush., beans,) $100.


BRADFORD.

Soap, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $400 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 210; value, $1,120; cap., $1,250 ; hands emp., 2.
Mast.er Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected,  2 ; value,  $1,300 ; value  of  the mat.erials  used, $800 ; hands emp., 3.	·
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value  of stock used,  $450 ; value of work done,
$1,456 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 6,000 ; gross value of stock  used,  $2,700;
value of  shoes m'd, $3,900;  cap., $200;  m.  emp., 2 ; f.emp., 2.
Shad taken, 14,000 ; value, $2,800; hands emp., 7.
Firewood and Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords,  409 ;  value,  $2,852.
Farms, 90 ; acres, 4,287 ; value, including Buildings, $358,321 ; acres improved, 3,275 ; persons emp., 137.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,012. Unimprovable Land, acres, 137. Woodland, acres, 610;  value,  $22,575.
Indian Corn, acres, 140 ; bush., 5,631 ; value, $11,102.
Rye, acres, 5f ; bush ., 79 ; value, $162. Barley, acres, 27 ; bush., 482 ; value, $981. Oats, acres, 70 ; bush., 2,010 ; value, $1,904.
Potatoes, acres, 64!; bush., 7,856 ; value, $5,631.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 6 ; bush., 1,175 ; value, $564.
•
136	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
DANVERS.	Essn: Co.

Onions, acres, t ; bush., 15 ; value, $30. Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 504 ; value, $280. Cabbage, acres, 2!; _value, $200.
Winter Squash, acres, 20 ; value, $2,028. Market Gardening, acres, 18 ; value, J3,000.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2 ; bush., 480 ; value, $240. English  Mowing,  acres,  1,097 ; tons  of  English  bay,  1,157 ;   value,
$32,775.
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale  mown,  acres,  204 ; tons  of   wet  meadow   or
. swale hay, 181; value, $1,827.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,967 ; value of apples, $6,850 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,500 ; value of pears, $1,759 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $171.
Sheep, 400 ; value, $2,000 ; lbs. of Wool, 654 ; value, $393.
Horses, 148 ; value; $18,889 ; Oxen over four years old, 69 ; Steers under four years old, 6 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,885 ; Milch Cows, 330 ; Heifers, 46 ; value of cows and heifers, $18,445 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (32 Calves,) $344 ; gallons of Milk sold, 35,854 ; value, $7,888; lbs. of Butter  sold, 8,607 ; value,
$2,721.
Swine, 216 ; value, $1,892 ; value of Poultry sold, $715 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,065 ; value of unenumerated artiles of Farm Pl'oduce,
$1,728.
Bone Dust m'd, tons, 40 ; value, $1,800 ; value of stock used, $700 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2.	,


DANVERS.

Woollen Carpeting, mills for m. of, 1 ; lbs. Scoured Wool consumed, 180,000 ; gross value of stock used, $87,200 ; yards of two-ply car­ peting  m'd, 120,000 ; value, $132,000 ; m. emp., 65 ; f. emp., 25.
Rolling Mills, 1; value of stock used, $13,320 ; tons of Iron m'd into bars and rods, 258 ; value, $20,640 ; cap., $10,000 ; hand . emp., 10. Hollow Ware and  Castings, other than  pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1;
Yalue of stock used, $1,600 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 30 ; value, $2,400 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands ernp., 2.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2; number of each m'd, 14 ; value, $550; value of stock used, $220 ; cap., $200 ; bands emp., 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF ;MASSACHUSETTS.	137
. EssEx Co.	DANVERS.

Ship Yards, 1; value of materials used, $8,000 ; Vessels launched, 1; tonnage, 310; value, exclusive of spars, rigging, and sails, $13,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Clothing,. establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $4,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 10. Soap, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $4,000 ; bbls.of soft soap m'd, 240; value, $900 ;lbs.of hard soap m'd, 60,000 ; value,
$6,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Blacksmith  Shops, 4 ; value of stock used,  $1,400;  value of work  done,
$4,700; cap., $850; hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,600 ; cap., $1,000; bands emp., 3.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 7 ; value of stock used, $13,500 ; Hides tanned, 3,000 ; hides curried, 8,900 ; value of leather tanned and curried, $67,000; cap., $19,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Patent and Enamelled Leather, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; value of patent and  enamelled  leather  m'd, 6,000 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 275 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 777,400 ; gross value of stock used, $640,405 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,,014,435 ; cap., $148,600 ; m. emp., 781 ; f. emp., 280. Brick Yards, 6 ; bricks m'd, 2,411,000; value, $26,300 ; cap., $19,700;
hands·emp., 31.
Casks, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; casks m'd, 3,200 ; value, $4,800; cap., $500; hands emp. 3.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $7,000; value of wooden boxes made,  $12,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 6.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of gas m'd, $3,500;  cap., $20,000;  hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved, 1,200 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $800; hands emp., 4.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $6,684; value of bread m'd, $9,210; cap., $1,400; hands emp., 3.
Firewood-and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,310 ; value, $4,614 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Farms, 140 ; acres, 6,350; value, including Buildings, $610,100; acre. of land improved, 4,952 ; persons emp., 205.
C'nimproved Land, acres, 414. Unimprovable Land, acres, 51. Woodland, acres, 836;  value, $10,080.
Indian Com, acres, 185; bush., 5,810; value, $5,810.
18
188	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
DANVERS.	ESSEX   Co.

Rye, acres, 14; bush., 252 ; value, $378. Barley, ac.res, 22 ; bush., 420 ; value, $630. Oats, acres, 26 ; bush ., 576 ; value, $460. Millet, acres, I ;·value, used for fodder, $20.
Potatoes, acres, 195 ; bush., 22,990 ; value, $22,990.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 12 ; bush., 2,515; value, $630. Onions, acres, 86 ; bush., 13,135 ; value, $19,703.
Carrots, acres, 18 ; bush., 8,922 ; value, $3,676. Cabbage, acres, 17 ; value, $2,965.
Winter Squ·ash, acres, 9 ; value, $1,040.
Market Gardening, acres, 51; value of products,  $8,260.
Beets  and  other  esculent  vegetables,  acres,  5 ; bush.,  1,575 ;  value,
$1,950 ; value of Garden Seeds prepared for market, $400. Cranberries, bush., 5 ; value, $20.	·
English   )lowing,  acres,   2,084 ; tons   of   English   bay,   2,082 ; value,
$51,875.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 447 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 384 ; value, $3,840.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 60 ; tons of  salt hay, 60 ; value, $900.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 20,076 ; value of apples, $9,685; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,940 ; value of  pears, $1,162 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 170 ; value of fruit, $200 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or  gathered  for market, $784.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 3 ; Merino sheep, 2 ; all other kinds of sheep, 90 ; gross value of all sheep, $620 ; lbs. of Wool, produced from Saxony sheep, 20 ; value, $10 ; lbs. merino wool, 8 ; value, $5 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 456 ; value, $228.
Horses, 337 ; value, $33,700 ; Asses and l\lules, 3; value, i300 ; Oxen over four years old, 94 ; Steers under four years old, 6 ; value of oxen and steers, $9,000 ; Milch Cows, 582 ; Heifers, 51 ; value of cows  and  heifers,  $25,320 ;  gallons  of l\lilk  sold,  97,343 ; value,
$15,575 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,966 ; value, $3,186. Beef, dressed, lbs., 1,100,800 ; value, $132,096.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 91,205 ; value, $16,416. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,875 ; value, $225. Veal, dressed, lbs., 22,500 ; value, $2,250.
Swine, 360 ; value, $5,400 ; value of Poultry sold, $975;  value  of Eggs sold, $1,380 ; lbs. of Honey, 890 ; value, $225 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, $3,956.
Establishments for m. of articles not elsewhere enumerated, 2 ; value of Morocco Linings m'd, $25,000 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; cap.,
$8,000 ; m. emp., IO.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	189
Essa: Co.	ESSEX,
ESSEX.

Ship Yards, 10; value of materials used, $45,000 ; Vessels launched, 23 ; tonna,,o,e,  2,117 ; value,  exclusive of  spars, rigging,  and sails,
$110,940 ; cap., $40,000 ; hands emp., 150.
Boats, establishments for the  m. of, 1; value  of materials  used, $120   ;
boats bwlt, 10 ; value, $500 ; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 1.
Mast and Spar Yards or Sheds, 1 ; value of materials used, $8,250; sets masts and spars m'd, 30; value, $10,500 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Wagons, establishments for the m. of, 1; wagons m'd, 3 ; value, .$150 ; value of stock used, $100 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp , 2.	'
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $3,150 ; value of work done,
$5,600; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 9.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $3,000 ; hides tanned, 500 ; hides tanned and curried, 500 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 2,120 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds  m'd, 2,250 ; gross value of stock used, $9,000 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $12,750 ; cap., $5,200 ; m. emp., 12 ; f. emp., 1.
Casks, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value of  stock used,  $180 ;
casks m'd, 300 ; value, $375 ; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 2.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $240 ; coffins made, 80 ; value, $300 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments  for  preservation  of, 1; tons preserved,
15 ; value, $300 ; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 1.
Shell Fish, bush., taken, 18,000 ; value, $12,000 ; cap., $400 ; hands
emp., 70.
Coestwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 1; tonnage, 100 ; value, $2,000 ; amount received for &eight, $800 ; hands emp., 4.
Saw  Mills,  2 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  50,000 ; value,
$3,000 ; feet of Boards prepared for market, 35,000 ; cap., $1,500 ;  hands emp., 3.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market,  cords, 105 ; value, $520.
Farms, 73 ; acres, 5,260 ; value, including Buildings, $296,384 ; acres of land  improved, 1,229 ; persons emp., 210.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 2,892.
Woodland, acres, 1,784 ; value,   $52,112.
Indian Com, acres, 120 ; bush., 3,600 ; value, $5,400. Rye, acres, 6;  bush., 90 ; value, $180.
140	STATISTICS  OF  THE		[1865. GEORGETOWN.		EssEx  Co.
Barley, acres, 71 ; bush., 1,420 ; value, $2,130. Oats, acres, 5 ; bush., 60 ; value, $40.
Potatoes, acres, 86 ; bush., 6,040 ; value, $4,530.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1; bush., 40 ; value, $12. Onions, acres, 2 ; bush., 400 ; value, $800.
Carrots, acres, 4, bush., 1,200 ; value, $240. Cabbage, acres, 6; value, $300.
Market Gardening, acres, 4; value of products, $400.
Beets and other  esculent vegetables,  acres, 20 ; bush., 1,GOO ; value,
$1,400.	_
English  Mowing, acres,  1,084 ; tons  of  English  hay,  954 ; value, .
$28,620.
Wet Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, 48 ; tons of wet  meadow  or  swale
hay, 88 ; value, $440.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 1,880; tons of salt hay, 1,410; value, $21,150. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit,·7,400 ; value of apples, $14,800 ; Pear-trees cultivated  for their fruit, 700 ; value of pears, $1,000 ;
value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $540. Sheep, 50, value, $300 ; lbs. Wool produced, 96 ; value, $57.
Horses, 137 ; value, $13,405 ; Oxen over four years old, 125; Steers under four years old, 5 ; value of oxen and steers, $13,250 ; Milch Cows, 307 ; Heifers, 8; value of cows and heifers, $13,820 ; gallons of Milk sold, 10,000; value, $1,200 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 20,000 ; value, $6,000.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 18,000 ; value, $1,620. Pork, dressed, lbs., 36,000 ; value, $5,040. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 4,140 ; value, $414. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,380; value, $357.
Swine, 141; value, $1,926 ; value of Poultry sold, $482 ; value  of Eggs sold, $648; lbs. of Honey, 800 ; value, $320 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 130 ; value, $40 ; value  of unenumerated . urticles of farm produce,
$2,000.


GEORGETOWN.

Clothing,   establishments   for  the  m.  of,  1;  value  of   stock  used,
$16,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $24,000 ;,cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 4; f. emp., 13.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done,
$3,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 6.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	141
EssEx Co.	GEORGETOWN.

Drugs, Medicines, and Dye Stuffs, establishments for rn. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value of drugs, medicines,  and  dye  stuffs m'd,
$14,960 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 3 ; f. emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock .used, $800 ; Hides tanned, 100 ; hides tanned and curried, 100 ; value of leather tanned and curried, $1,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp.,  1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 86,340; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 141,600 ; gross value of stock used, $240,000 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $380,125 ; cap., $70,000 ; m.emp., 264 ; f. emp., 158.
Snuff, Tobacco, and  Cigars,  value  m'd,  $7,780 ; value of stock used,
$5,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1; f. erup., 3.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,800 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $6,100 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills,  2 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  90,000 ; value,
$2,500 ; value of Ship Timber, $790 ; hands emp., 3.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 830 ; value, $3,330 ; cap., $500 ;  hands  emp., 5.
Fanns, 103 ; acres, 3,090 ; value of same, including Buildings, $1!)0,- 550 ; acres of land improved, 5,855 ; persons emp., 216.
Unimproved Land, acres, 60. 'Vnimprovable  Land, acres, 45.
Indian Corn, acres, 117 ; bush., 3,453 ; value, $3,453. Rye, acres, 2l ; bush., 27 ; valUfi, $30.
Barley, acres, 25 ; bush., 350 ; value, $437.
Oats, acres, 3 ; bush., 58 ; value, $45.
Potatoes, acres, 76 ; bush., 7,969 ; value, $3,985.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2 ; bush., 627 ; value, $157.
Carrots,  acres,!; bush ., 157 ; value,  $40.
Winter Squash, acres, l; value, $80. Cranberries, acres, 25 ; bush., 218; value, $GOO.
English Mowing, acres, 735 ; tons of English hay, 634 ; value, $19,000 ; Grass or Clover Seed, bush., 20 ; value, $60.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 384 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 310 i value, $3,100.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,710 ; value of apples, $3,728; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 378; value of pears, $138 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 90 ; value of fruit, $110 ; value Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $150.
Sheep, 56 ; value, $560 ; lbs. of Wool, 162 ; value, $162.
Horses, 158 ; value, $13,480 ; Oxen over four years -old, 66 ; Steers under four years old, 10 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,950 ; Milch Cows, 292 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (82 Yearlings,)
14:2	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
GLOUCESTER.	ESSEX  Co.

$884 ; gallons of Milk sold, 6,100 ; value, $1,220 ; lbs.  of  Butter sold, 8,700 ; value, $2,900.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 62,550;  value,  $10,518.
Swine, 95 ; value, $1,425; value of Poultry sold, $454 ; value of Eggs sold, $750 ; lbs. of Honey, 864 ; value, $91.
Domestic Fruit Wines, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value m'd, $2,500 ; value of  stock used, $1,000; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1..


GLOUCESTER.

Head-Nets and Head-dresses,  manufactories of, 1 ; value of  stock   used,
$800 ; nets and head-dresses m'd, 800 ; value, $500; cap., $300 ; f. emp., 1.
Anchor Manufactories, l ; value of stock used, $6,000 ; tons of anchors m'd, 150 ; value, $9,000 ; cap., $2,000; hands emp.about six months each, 8.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,000 ; Newspapers printed, (Telegraph, Cape Ann Light, Cape Ann Adver­ tiser,) 3; 1 semi-weekly, 2 weekly ; gross value,$6,500; cap., $6,500 ; value of  all other printing done, $3,500;  m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 5.
Daguerreian  and  Photographic   Establishments,  8 ; value of  stock used,
$1,850 ; photographs taken,  11,500; value, $5,600 ; cap., $2,100 ;
m. emp., 3.	.
Harnesses, establishments for m.of, 1; harnesses m'd, 16 ; value, $900 ; value of stock used, $400 ; cap.,$400; hands emp. about six months, 1. Ship Yards, 1; value of materials used, $5,000 ; 1 Vessel on stocks; tonnage, 132 ; value, exclusive of spars, rigging, and sails, $7,000 ;
cap., $5,000 ; hands emp,, 10.
Boats, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of materials used, $1,150 ; boats built, 39 ; value, $3,800; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 3.
Mast and Spar Yards or Sheds, 2 ; value of materials used, $2,000 ; masts and spars m'd, 295 ; value, $4,700 ; cap., $3,200 ; hands emp.,5. Sail Lofte, 8 ; Sails made of Am. fabric, 425 ; value of fabric, $106,250; value of sails, $127,500 ; Sails made of foreign fabric, 1; value of
fabric, $300 ; value of sails, $350 ; cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 83. Clothing, establishments  for m.  of, 5 ; value  of stock  used,  $10,600 ;
value of clothing m'd, $16:400 ; cap., $3,300 ; m.emp., 5 ; f. emp., 20. Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,040 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd,.60 ; value, $300 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 48,000 ; value,
$5,760 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 1.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	143
EssEx Co.	GLOUCESTER.

,
Mn.,ter Builders, 15 ; Buildings erected, 35; value, $162,500 ; value of
materials used, $93,300 ; hands emp., 85.
Blacksmith Shops, 14 ; value of stock used, $10,175 ; value of work done,
$24,400; cap., $10,400 ; hands emp., 24.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 6 ; value of stock used, $7,100 ; value of tin ware m'd, $11,500 ; cap., $8,800; hands emp., 7.
Copper Paint, establishments for m. of; 1; lbs. of copper paint m'd, 20,000 ; value, $6,000..
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 4,175 ;  Shoes, pairs of allkinds m'd, 2,233 ;
gross value of  stock  used,  $12,000 ; value  of  boots  and  shoes   m'd,
$19,000 ; cap., $5,500; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 2.
Snuff, Tobacco,  and  Cigars,  value  m'd,  $3,500 ; value  of  stock   used,
$1,300 ; cap., $1,300 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1.
Pumps, establishments for m. o( 2 ; value of _stock used, $450 ; value of pumps  m'd,  $800;  cap., $350 ; hands  emp., 2.
Casks, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; casks m'd, 6,000 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Coffins and Burial Cases, of all kinds, manufactories of; 2 ; value of stock used, $1,000 ; coffins made, 200 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Gas, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value of gas m'd, $9,200 ; cap., $40,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Ice for market, establishments  for  preservation   of;  5 ; tons   preserved,
1,100 ; value, '$22,000 ; cap., $9,000 ; hands emp. one year, 8 ; three weeks, 85.
Bakeries, 2 ; value of stock used, $22,000 ; value of Bread m'd, 88,500 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 9.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 341 ; tonnage, 24,450 ; bbls. of mackerel taken, 154,9381; value, $2,190,562 ; quintals  of cod and other dry fish taken, 113,028; value, $706,425 ; value of cod liver oil sold, $90,420; value of salt consumed, $230,025 ; cap., Sl,865,700 ; hands emp., 4,590.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, 7,000 ; value, $8,600 ; cap., $850 ; hands emp. two months, 40.
Coa.stwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 5 ; tonnage, 500 ; value, $11,600 ; amount received for freight,  $12,300;  hands  emp., 17.
Stone Quarries, 4 ; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $39,000; cap., $13,000 ; hands emp. about six months in the year, 56.
144	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
GLOUCESTER.	EssEx   Co.

Saw Mills, 1; feet of Lumber prepared  for market,  125,000 ; value,	'
$3,750 ; value of Ship Timber prepared  for  market,  $2,500 ;  cap.,
$2,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 400 ; value, $2,500 ;. cap., $4,000 ; hands emp. in the winter months, 10.
Farms, 84 ; acres, 6,000 ; value, including Buildings, $220,800 ; acres
improved, 1,400 ; persons emp., 155• . Unimproved   Land,  acres, 8,600.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 450. Woodland, acres, 2,912 ; value,  $45,850.
Indian Corn, acres, 80 ; bush., 2,500 ; value, $3,800. Wheat, acres, l ; bush., 8 ; value, $20.
Rye, acres, 3 ; bush., 60 ; value,  $100. Barley, a'Cres, 21 ; bush., 500 ; value, $600.
Oats, acres, 1l ; bush., 50 ; value, $25.
Potatoes, acres, 61!; bush., 7,000 ; value, $5,000.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 6 ; bush., 1,680 ; value, $425. Onions, acres, 2} ; bush., 350 ; value,   $700.
Carrots, acres, 1 ; bush., 500 ; value, $130. Cabbage, acres, 22t ; value, $2,100.
Winter Squash, acres, 5 ; value, $450.
Market Gardening, acres, 82 ; value of products, $10,000.
Beets and other esculent vegetables,  acres, 4!; bush.,  1,300 ; value,
$400.
Cranberries, acres, 3!; bush., 125 ; value, $375.
Englisl,i   Mowing,   acres,   900 ;  tons   of  English   hay,   1,200 ; value,
$48,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 19 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  22 ;  value, $113.
Salt l\Iarsh mown, acres, 900 ; tons of salt hay, 850 ; value, $8,500. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,775 ; value  of apples,  $5,950 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 850 ; value of pears, $1,100; value of Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $2,500.
Horses, 319 ; value, $37,155 ; Asses and Mules, 1; value, $25 ; Oxen over four years old, 106 ; Steers under four years old, 2 ; value of oxen and steers, $9,936 ; Milch Cows, 419 ; Heifers, 28 ; value of cows and heifers, $19,800 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (2 Bulls,) $90 ; gallons of Milk sold, 80,000 ; value, $20,000 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 4,755 ; value, $2,150.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 420,000 ; value, $50,400. Pork, dressed, lbs., 29,500 ; value, $6,000.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'l'TS.	145
E88EX   Co.	•	GaovEL.ilfD• Mutton, dressed, lbe., 55,000 ; value, $6,630.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 45,700 ; value, $5,484.
Swine, 254 ; value, $4,855; value of  Eggs sold,  $885 ; lbs. of Honey,
• 115 ; value, $36.
Lobsters sold, 115,000 ; value, 88,450.
Pickled Fish, bbls., 25,000 ; value, $250,000 ; value of salt consumed,
$2,250.
Vessels engaged in catching Bait, 12 ; tonnage, 720 ; bands emp., 100 ; bbls. bait caught, 1,400 ; value, $75,000 ; value salt used, $5,000 ; cap., $36,000.	·


GROVELAND.
Woollen Mills, 2 ; sets woollen machinery, 15; lbs. Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 800,000 ; gross value of stock used; $275,000 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 1,650,000; Talue, $495,000 ; cap., $200,000 ; m. emp., 50;  £ emp., 65.
Shoddy, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $780 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 18,000 ; value, $1,620 ; cap., $1,000;  m. emp., 2,
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock  used, $250; value of work  done,
$800 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, l; value of stock used, $1,500 ; hides tanned, 800 ; hides tanned and curried, 300 ; value, $2,500 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 13,863 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 170,605 ; gross value of stock used, $169,729 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $265,655 ; cap., $41,200;  m. emp., 175 ; £ emp., 80.
Planing Mills, 1; value of stock	$2,000 ; value of  all other work done, $250 ; cap., $300 ; bands emp., 1.
Saw  Mills,  8;  feet of Lumber  prepared  i>r market,  98,000 ; value,
$1,400 ; cap., $2,400 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared  m- market,  cords,  817 ;  value,    $1,946.
Farms, 70 ; acres, 2,488; value, including buildings, $146,872 ; acres of land improved, 2,488 ; penon8 emp., 85.
Unimproved Land, acres, 298. Unimprovable Land, aerea, 60. Woodland, acres, 1,178 ; value, $49,989.
Indian Corn, acres, 90 ; bush., 8,511; value, $6,151. Wheat, acres, f ; bosh., 9 ; value, $28.
Rye, 8Cl"t!8, 11; bush., 114; value, $228.
19
146	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
H.unLTOK.	Essu  Co.

Barley, acres, 16; bush., 868; value, $642. Oats, acres, 22 ; bush., 604 ; value, $582. Potatoes, acres, 60 ; bush., 7,091; value, $5,812.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, bush., 200; value, $100.	•
English Mowing, acres, 590 ; tons of English hay, 482 ; value, $11,874 ; Grass or Clover Seed, bush., 2 ; value, $8.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 221 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  194;  value, $2,780.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 40 ; to.ns of salt hay, 46 ; value, $690. Apple-trees cultivated for their  fruit, 6,281; value  of apples, $2,9« ;
Pear-trees  cultivated  for their  fruit, 708;  value of  pears; $157.
Sheep, SO ; value, $180 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 106 ; value, $70.
Horses, 98 ; value, $6,602; Oxen over four years old, 48 ; Steers under four years old, 19 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,695; Milch Cows, 196; Heifers, 24 ; value of cows and heifers, $10,077 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (1 Bull,) $87 ; gallons of milk eold, 7,496 ; value, $1,860 ; lbs. of Butter eold, 8,848 ; value, $1,842 ; lbs. Cheese, 825 ; value, $49.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 4,679 ; value, $468. Pork, dressed, lbs., 42,101; value, $7,572. Veal, dressed, lbs., 5,903 ; value, $9«.
Swine, 88 ; value, $862 ; value of Poultry sold, $678 ; value of Eggs eold, $496; lbs. of Honey, 278 ; value, $82; lbs. of Beeswax, 4; value, $2.


HAMILTON.
Woollen Milla, 1; sets of machinery, 6 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 16,000 ; gross value of stock used, $128,000 ; lbs. of Woollen Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 158,000 ; value, $185,000; m. emp., 25;
f. emp" 85.
Hosiery, establishments for m. ot; 1; value of stock ueed, $185,000; hosiery m'd, 55,000 pairs Army and Rtobed Socks ; value, $24,000. Blacksmith Shope, 1; value of stock used, $800; value of work done,
$1,200 ; cap., $500; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,050 ;
gross value of stock used, $762; value of shoes m'd, $1,255; cap., $60 ;
m. emp 2 ; £ emp., 1.	·
Saw Mills, 1; feet of Lumber prepared, 20,000.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 146; value, $1,019.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	147
Esau:  Co.	lliJm.TON.

Farms, 96 ; acres, 6,594: ; value, including Buildings, $288;950; acres land improved, 7,294:l ; persons emp., 128.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 874.
. Unimprovable Land, acres, 88.
Woodland, acres, 1,097 ; value, $41,896.
Indian Corn, acres, 146; bush., 4,868 ; value, $4,868.
Rye, acres, 27f ; bosh., 882 ; value, $882. Barley, acres, 82 ; bosh., 467 ; value, $467. Oat8, acres, 24: ; bush., 865 ; value, $05.50.
Potatoes, acres, 1051; bush., 7,750 ; value,  $4,650.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, ll; bush., 8 ; value, $128.
Onions, acres, l ; bush., 100 ; value, $100. Carrot8, acres, Si; bush., 1,050 ; value, $185. Cabbage, acres, 1 ; value, $175.
Wmter  Squash, acres, f ;value, $72.
Cranberries, acres, 21; bush., 47 ; value, $108.
English   Mowiog,   acres,  1,196 ;  tons  of  English   hay,  857 ; value,
$17,190.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 791; tons of wet meadoworswale hay, 552; value, $5,599.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,650; value, $2,144 ; Pear-trees cultivated {or their fruit, 112; value o( pears, $56.
Sheep, 21 ; value, $100;  lbe. of  Wool, 70; value, $88.80.
Hones, 111; value, $6,420; Oxen over four years old, 102 ; Steers under four years old, 8; value o( oxen and steers, $5,265; Milch Cows, 317 ; Heifers, 89 ; value of cows and heifers, $16,898 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (18 Bolls,) $260 ;gallons of Milk sold,  2,625;  value,  $396.80;  lbe. of  Butter  sold,  14,515; value,
$4,867.50.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 51,000 ; value, $8,060. Pork, dressed, lbs., 15,400; value, $1,692. Motton, dressed, lbs., 8,400 ; value, $272. Veal, dressed, lbs., 10,000 ; value, $900.
Swine, 94 ; value, $1,820 ; value of Poultry sold, $672 ; value of Eggs eold, $1,474; lbe. o( Honey, 20; value, $5.
148	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
HAVERHILL.	EssEX: Co.


HAVERIDLL.

Woollen Mills, 2 ; sets of machinery, 6 ; lbs. Scoured Wool consumed, 246,000 ; gross value of stock used, $165,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 50,000 ; value, $75,000; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 500,000; value, $165,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 35 ; f. emp., 33.
Tack and Brad Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $7,000 ; tons of tacks and brads m'd, 7 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4. Iron Railing and Iron Fences, shops for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $700 ;  value  of  iron  railing  and  iron  fences,  m'd,  $1,200 ;
cap., $500 ; hands emp., 3.
Printing and ewspaper Establishments, 3 ; value of stock used, $3,825 ; newspapers and periodicals printed, (Haverhill Gazette, Essex Banner, and Tri-Weekly Publisher,) 3; issued 2 weekly, 1 tri­ weekly ; gross value, $4,725 ; cap., $5,000; value of all other printing done, $3,500 ; m. emp., 14 ; f. emp., 2.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of Bookbinding done, $200 ; cap., $150 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp. 2.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 4 ; value of stock used,
$3,600 ;  daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,  $32,500 ; value,
$8,350 ; cap., $2,600 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 4.
Silver Ware, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of  articles m'd, $1,500 ; cap., $500; m. emp.,  1.
Harnesses,  establishments  for  m.  of, 2 ;  harnesses,  m'd, 77 ; value,
$3,350;  value of  stock used, $1,650 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 7.
Hat and Cap Manufactories, 3 ; value of stock used, $240,000 ; hats and caps m'd, 439,476 ; value, $360,971 ; cap., $75,000 ; m. emp., 145 ; £ emp., 82.
Chaises, Wagons, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 3 ; vehicles m'd,  120  buggies,  45  wagons ; value,  $40,000 ;  value of
. stock used, $19,500 ; cap., $11,000 ; hands emp., 24.
Confectionary, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $300 ; lbs.•confectionary made, 2,000 ; value, $600 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1. Clothing, establishments for m. of, 5 ; value of stock used, $23,000 ; value  of clothing m'd, $59,000 ; cap., $5,700 ; m. crop., 8 ; £ emp.,
32.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of Gravestones m'd, $7,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Tallow Candles, establishments  for m. of, 1; lbs. made, 3,000 ; value,
$450 ; cap.,  $1,000 ; hands emp., 1.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	149
EssEx Co.	HAVERHILL,

Soap, establisments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 900 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 4.
Master Builders, 9; Buildings erected, 30; value, $41,700; value  of
materials used, $28,000 ; hands emp., 45.
Blacksmith Shops, 6; value of stock used, $9,400; value of work done,
$18,200 ; cap., $4,700; hands emp., 35.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 3 ; value of stock used, $2,400 ; value of tin ware m'd, $3,865 ; cap., $1,800 ; hands emp., 6.
Flouring Mills, 3; bush. grain ground, 35,000; value, $29,500 ; cap.,
$3,500; hands emp., 3.
Currying Establishments, 4; value of stock used, $112,500; Hides curried, 27,000 ; value of Leather curried, $182,000 ; cap.,$19,500; hands emp., 31.
Shoes, pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd, 3,248,560;  gross  value  of   stock    used,
$2,596,260; value of shoes m'd, $4,602,787 ; cap., $704,700; m. emp., 3,039 ; f. emp., 1,001.
Brick Yards, 2 ; bricks m'd, 800,000 ; value, $4,800; cap., $1,600 ;
hands emp., 11.
Last Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $3,500 ; lasts m'd, 5,600; value, $14,500; cap., $6,500; hands emp., 15.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used, $9,300; value of wooden boxes made, $18,750 ; value of paper boxes made, $1,775; cap., $2,750 ; m. emp., 7; £ emp. 8.
Gas, establishm,nts  for m. of, 1; value  of  stock  used, $15,000 ; value
of gas m'd, $18,000; cap., $50,000; hands emp., 3.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved, 1,500 ; value, $1,500;  cap., $1,000;  hands emp., 4.
Bakeries,  2 ; value  of stock  used,   $15,500 ; value  of  Bread m'd,
$24,000 ; cap., $1,700 ; hands emp., 8.
Alewives,  Shad, and Salmon taken, 10,500 ; value, $1,225.50; hands
emp., 7.
Saw Mills, 1; feet of Lumber prepared for market,  100,000 ;  value,
$20,000 ; Shingles prepared for market, 40,000 ; value, $200 ; cap., S500 ; hands emp., 1.	·
Firewood and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 1,000;  value, $6,500;
cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Farms, 280 ; acres, 14,278; value, including Buildings, $566,285; acres of land improved, 12,669; persons emp., 301.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 1,609.	· Woodland,  acres,  1,527;  value, $80,675.
Indian Com, acres, 321 ; bush.,  10,148; value, $10,760.
150	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[18.
HA.VERRILL.	ESSEX    Co.

Wheat, acres, 7 ;·bush., 88 ; value, $212. Rye, acres, 90; bush., 1,008 ; value, $1,241. Barley, acres, 26; bush., 462 ; value, $462.
Oats, acres, 128; bush., 8,488; value, $2,574.50.
Grain Crops, acres of all other, 12 ; bush., 76 ; value, $226. Potatoes, acres, 808; bush., 24,055 ; value, $19,959.50.
Turnips, acres cultivated as a field crop, 8 ; bush., 1,546 ; value, $756. Onions, acres, 2 ; bush., 825 ; value, $487.50.
Carrots, acres, 8; bush., 880 ; value, $327.50. Cabbage, acres, 5 ; value, $765..
Winter Squash, acres, 3 ; value, $519. Garden Seeds, acres, l ; value, $100.
Market Gardening, acres, 9 ; value of products, $1,985.
Beets, and other escolent vegetables, acres, 8; bush., 956 ; value, $824 ; value of  Garden Se:ecls prepared  for market,  $100.
Cranberries, acres, 10; bush., 242 ; value, $726.
English Mowing, acres, 3,045 ; tons English bay, 2,969 ; value, $58,850.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 502 ; tons wet meadow or ewale hay,  456;  value, $5,196.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 16,855 ; value of apples, $11,647; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,203 ; value of pears, $4,388 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 408; value of fruit, $347; value value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $200.
Sheep,  811; value, $2,194 ; lbe. of  Wool produced, 9$1,258; value,
$605.65.
Horsee, 684 ; value, $68,197 ; Oxen over four years old, 167; Steers under four years old, 80 ; value of oxen and steers, $16,115; Milch Cows, 776; Heifers, 108; value of cows and heifers, $36,361; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (12 Bulls,) $450 ; gallons of Mille sold, 88,643; value, $8,957 ; lbs. Butter sold, 9,486 ; value,
$3,489.50 ; lbs. of Cheese, 3,380 ; value, $577.
Beet; dre8sed, lbs. 1,189,650 ; value, $147,165. Pork, dressed, lbe., 121,820 ; value, $88,787. Mutton, dressed, lbs. 90,610 ; value, $14,998. Veal, dressed, lbs. 96,880 ; value, $12,727.
Swine, 865; value, $23,357 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,152; value of Eggs sold, $1,680 ; lbe. of Honey, 570 ; value, $213.60 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, Beans, 168 bush., $462 ; value of  Grapes,  $1,69!.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	151
Euu Co.	IPSWICB.


IPSWICH.
C.Otton Milla, 1; spindles, 8,000 ; cotton OOD8Ullled, lbs., 87,500 ; gross value of stock uaed, $87,500; yards of Cloth m'd, 225,000 ; gross value, $40,800;  m. emp.,  18 ; £ emp., 40.
Hosiery, establishments for m. of; 7 ; value of stock uaed, $16,500; hosiery m'd, dozens, 14,972; value, $88,948 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 80 ; f. emp., 50.
Heed-nets and Head-dreases, manufactoriea of; 5 ; value  of  stock uaed,
$52,500 ; nets and head-dresses m'	(cotton), dos., 86,458; value,
$105,000; m. emp., 10 ; £ emp., 100.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, estab'ts for m. o( 1; harnesses m'd, 6 ; value, $250; value of stock uaed, $125 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 2. Ship Yards, 1; value of materials uaed, $8,000 ; Vessels launched, 2 ; tonnage, 260 ; value, exclusive of spare, rigging, and sails,  $18,060 ;
cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Railnled Can, Coaches, Chaises, W	Sleighs,   and other  vehicles, 8 ; wagons m'd, 12; value, $1,500 ; value of stock uaed,  $1,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 4.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of; 8 ; value of stock uaed, $500 ; wheels m'd, 100 ; value, $800 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 4.
Confectionery, establishments for m. o( 1; value of .stock uaed, $100 ; lbs. of confectionery made, 275 ; value, $200 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Clothing, establiahments for m. o( 1; value of stock uaed, $4,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $6,897 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 6. Soap, establiahments for m. of; 1; value of stock uaed, $1,000 ; bbJs. of
80ft 1108p m'd, 800 ; value, $1,500 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 8,856; value, $462 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 15; Buildings erected, 12; value, $8,000 ; value of materials uaed, $5,000 ; hands emp., to.
Blaebmith Shope, 4 ; value of stock uaed, $8,000 ; value of work done,
$6,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 11.
Tin Ware Manufactories,  1; value  of  stock  uaed,  $800 ; value  of tin
ware m'd, $1,600; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
Tummg and Cunying :Eetablishmenta, 1; value of stock uaed, $2,000; Hides tanned, 2,000 ; value of leather tanned and cmried, $21,000 ;  cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Boote, pain ot all kinds m'd, 6,500 ; Shoes, painof allkinds m'd, 6,200 ;
gna valae of stock  used,  $17,000 ; value  of  boots  and  ahoel m'd,
$26,921; cap., $8,000 ; m. ·emp., 25; £ emp., 10.
152	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
ll'8WICH.	ESSEX   Co.

Casks, establishments for m. o 2 ; "8.lue. of stock used, $300 ; casks
m'd, 500; value, $500 ; cap., $300; hands emp., 2.
Coffins and Burial Cases of  all  kinds,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $500 ;
coffins made, 80 ; value, $800 ; cap., $800; hands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of; 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 48; value, $300;  cap., $100 ; hands emp., 4.
Bakeries, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,700; value of Bread m'd, $4,500; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 4:.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 1; tonnage, 80 ; bbls. of mackerel taken, 100 ; value, f1,500 ; hands emp., 6.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, 89,800 ; value, $19,000 ; cap., $5,000; hands emp., 75.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, bbls., 500 ; value, $2,000 ; hands
emp., 15.
Coastwisc or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 5 ; tonnage, 500 ; value, $12,900; amount received for freight, $10,000; hands emp., 16. Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords,  1,500; value,  $12,000.
Farms, 177 ; acres, 2,858 ; value, including Buildings, $442,500 ; acres improved, 2,000; pel'80ns emp., 581.
Woodland, acres, 1,802 ; value, $39,060.
Indian Com, acres, 800 ; bush., 20,000; value, $20,000. Wheat, acres, 250 ; bush., 5,000 ; alu $5,500.
Rye, acres, 250 ; bush., 5,000 ; value, $5,500. Barley, acres, 100; bush., 1,500 ; value, $1,600. Oau,, acres, 20 ; bush., 200; value, $150.
Potatoes, acres, 900 ; bush., 27,000; value, $27,000.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 10 ; bush., 5,000 ; value, $1,500 ; Onions, acres, 12 ; bush., 1,500; value, $1,500.
Carrots, acres, 20 ; bush., 8,000 ; value, $6,000, Cabbage, acres, 14; value, $2,800.
Winter SquMh, acres, 20 ; value, $4,000.
Market Gardening, acres, 10 ; value of products, $600. Cranberries, acres, 5 ; bush., 140 ; value, $420.
English Mowing, acres, 2,792 ; tons of English hay,  2,000 ; value,
$50,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 467 ; tons of wet meadow orswale
hay, 500 ; value, $4,500.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 8,888; tons of salt hay, 2,257 ;value, $22,570. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 12,879 ; value of apples, $6,000 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 550 ; value of pears, $500 ;value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $1,500.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.  •	158
EssEx   Co.	LAWRENCE.

Sheep, 818 ; gross value, $1,5654 lbs. of Wool produced, 1,565; value,
$1,252.
Horsee, 311; value, $26,495 ; Aaees and Mules, 1; value, $10 ; Oxen over four yean old. 244 ; Steers under four years old, 96 ; value of oxen and steers, $17,170 ; Milch Cows, 664 ; Heifers, 78 ; value of cows and heifers, $24,800; gallons of )[ilk sold, 6,825 ; value, $1,665; lbs. of Butter sold, 2,621; value, $1,00.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 117,000 ; value, $17,550. Pork, dreeeed, lbs., 25,979 ; value, $4,676. Mutton, dreeaed, lbs., 7,500; value, U,125. Veal, dressed, lbs., 13,280;  value,  $1,726.
S,vine, 402 ; value, $4,620 ; value of Poultry sold, $535 ; vp.lue of Eggs sold, $1,638; lbs. of Honey, 800; value, $100; value of Bees­ wax, $2.


LAWRENCE.

Cotton Mills, 6 ; spindles, 287,476 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 6,218,265 ; gross  value  of  stock  used,  $16,896,886.40;  yards  of  Cloth  m'd,
. (Print Cloths, Cambric, De Lt,ines, Italian Cloths, Duck Cloth, Tickings, Sheetings, Shirtings, Stripes, Cottonades, Jeans, Canton Flannels, and Cotton C888imere,) 17,088,709 ; gross value of  cloth m'd, $7,210,379.70 ; lbs. of Cotton Batting m'd, 2,777 ; value, $2,500 ; Cotton Sail Twine m'd, lbs., 17,855; value, $24,000; cap., $3,855,715; m. emp., 1,012 ; f. emp., 1,715.
Calico and MOUBBeline de Laine, establishments for printing, 1; yards of calico printed,  8,747,358; value  after printing,  $1,249,119 ; yards  of  MouBBeline   de  Laine  printed,  21,888,704 ; value  after printing,
$8,080,820 ; yards of Goods bleached and colored in said establish­ ments and not printed, 1,355,900 ; cap., $2,500,000 ; m. emp. 1,878; f. emp., 1,582.
Woollen Mills, 7 ; sets of machinery, 114; lbs. of  Scoured Wool  con­
sumed, 1,930,726 ; gross value of stock used,  $2,581,422.84 ; yards of Broadcloth m'd, 919,170 ; value, $2,297,925 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 102,861; value, $192,897.75 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 112,408 ; value, $89,758.75; yards of Kentucky Jeans, 12,675 ; value, $5,070 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 1,671,288 ; value, $987,087.60; Shawls m'd, 183,120 ; value, $711,826.31; Table and Pianoforte Covers  m'd, 58,288; value,  $145,710 ; value  of all  other Woollen
20
lH	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865;
LAWRENCE.	EssEx  Co.

Goods  m'd,  (C'A>burgs,  Serge,  Buating,  Union,  and  Woollen Piece
Goods,) $469,098.40 ; cap., $1,314,285; m. emp.,758 ; £ emp., 1,290.
American Wonteds, establishments  for m.of, (one mill not yet running,)  2 ; lbe. of stock used, 15,000;  value, $15,500;  Braid Ya.ma  m'd, lbe., 10,000 ; value, $21,000 ; cap., $23,000; m.  emp.,  5 ; £  emp., 18.
Balmoral   Skirts,  establishments  for  m.  of,  4 ; value  of stock used,
$149,630 ; skirts m'd, 92,066; value, $246,633.02 ; cap., $49,071 ;
m. emp., 33 ; £ emp., 120.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $117,500; tons of hollow ware and other cast­ ings .m'd, 1,323;  value, $146,627 ; cap., $40,000 ; hands emp., 62.
Cotton,  Woollen,  and other  Machinery,  establishments  for  m.  of,  5 ;
gross value of etock used, $111,815.58 ; value of machinery m'd,
$154,655.58 ; cap., $61,500; hands emp., 132.
Machine and  Hand  Carda of all kinds,  establishments for  m. of,  2 ; value of etock used, $101,373.20 ; feet of  machine  cards  m'd,  78,365 ; value,  $157,221.30;  cap., $42,000 ; m. emp., 21;  £  emp.,   6.
Steam Engines, and Boilers, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $70,000 ; steam-engines and boilen built, 150 ; value, $150,000 i cap., $20,000 ; hands employed, 80.
Filee, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,893.60 ; dozens of files m'd, 1,578; value, $1,317.54 ; cap., $1,800 ; hands emp., 5.
Bl'888 Foundries, 1; value of etock used, $3,500 ; value of small cast­ ings m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp.,  2.
Paper Manufactoriee, 7; tons of stock consumed, 6,620 ; value, $505,070; tons of printing paper m'd, 2,179 ; value, $880,656 ; tons of wrap­ ping paper m'd, 207 ; value, $57,456; tone of all other kinds of paper m'd, 675; value, $50,000 ; cap., $285,000 ; m. emp., 172 ; £ emp., 139.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 2; value of stock used, $1,300; newspapers and periodicals printed. (Lawrence American and Law­ rence Sentinel,) 2 ; ieeued weekly ; gross value, $4,260; cap., $4,000 ; value of all other: printing done, $17,000 ; cap.,$14,000; m. emp., 14;
£ emp., 2.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $687 ; value of bookbinding done, $1,300 ; cap., $225; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Sewing-Machine Manufactoriee,  (new  enterprise  just  started,)  1; cap.,
$47,500; hands emp., 30.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	155
ESSEX   Co.	LA.WRENCE.

Daguerreian and Phot.ograpbic Establishments, 7 ; value of stock ueed,
$2,978.79 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 57,600 ; value,
$15,450 ; cap., $6,650 ; m. emp., 12; £ emp., 4.
Looking-Glasses and Picture Frames, 8; value of stock Wied, $1,842.48; articles m'd, 1,491 ; value, $2,128.05; cap., $2,850;  hands emp.,   5.
Mattresses of all kinda and materials, manufactories of, 1 ; value of stock used, $425; mattresses made,  (three kinds,  75 of each,)  225  ;
value, $500 ; cap., $650 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Harnesses, establishments fur m. of, 2; harneeeee m'd, 85 ; value, $1,875; value  of  stock used,  $1,200 ; cap., $1,172;  hands emp., 5.
Upholstery Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,100 ; value of upholstery m'd, $1,850 ; cap., $1,950; m. emp., 8.
Hat Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $49,882.45 ; hats  m'd, 95,282; value, $57,754.56 ; cap.. $28,000 ; m. emp., 57 ; f. emp., 20. Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments fur  m. of, 2 ; number m'd,  79 railroad cars,  8 chaises,
4 buggies, 25 sleighs, 4 wagons ; value, $32,586.82 ; value of stock
used, $22,020.58;  cap., $187,528.60 ; hands emp., 85.
Qmiage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $175 ; value of wheels m'd, $1,600 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 5 ; value of stock used, $20,800 ; value of clothing m'd, $81,250 ; cap.,$6,500 ; m. emp.,8 ; f. emp., 81. Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $5,785 ; value of Monuments, Tablets, and other articles
m'd, $16,000 ; cap., $8,100 ; hands emp., 14.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of, 1; value  of 11tock
used, $700 ; lbs. of tallow candles made,  4,320 ; value,  $700; cap.,
$500 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $15,000 ; bbls. of sot\ soap m'd, 2,120; value, $7,920; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 57,000; value, $5,889; value of all other soaps m'd, $4,600 ; cap., $17,000 ; bands emp., 9.
Master Builders, 12 ; Buildings erected, 50 ; value, $838,000 ; value of materials used, $173,500 ; hands emp., 1,016.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $8,300 ; value of work done,
$15,403.20 ; cap., $4,800 ; hands emp., 10.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 7 ; value of stock used, $10,450 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $14,924.14 ; cap., $17,950 ; hands emp., 81.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dyeetuffii, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of  drugs, medicines,  and dyestuffs  m'd,
$4,600 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 5.
156	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
LAWRENCE.	EssEx   Co.

Flouring Mills, 1; bush. Grain ground, 175,000 ; value, $260,000 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 20,000 ; value, $200,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; hands emp., 8.	'
Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $9,000 ; Hides curried, 8,000 ; value of leather curried, $84,200 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp.,4.
Belting of  all kinds and all materials for machinery, manufactoriesof,  8 ;
value of stock used, $95,107.90 ; feet of belting m'd, 258;000 ; value,
$180,142.53; cap., $16,000 ; hands emp., 81.	•
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 10,050 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 20,300 ; gross value of stock used, $36,437 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $60,900 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., average, 5 ; f. emp., average 2. Blocks and Pumps, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$125 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $725 ; cap., $300; bands cmp., 1.	·
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, rnanufactories of,  2 ; value  of stock used, $1,625 ; coffins made, 441 ; value, $3,790 ; cap., $1,6J)O; hands emp., 2.	·
Planing Mills and establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors, and  Blinds, 8 ; value of stock used, $6,300 ; value of sashes, doors and blinds m'd, $13,673; value of all other work done, $15,015 ; cap., $6,500 ; hands emp., 15.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2; value of stock used, $29,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $44,000 ; value of paper boxes made, $9,000; cap., $30,000 ; m. emp., 17 ; f. emp., 15.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $33,605.79 ; value of gas m'd, $63,083.97 ; cap., $120,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 1,200 ; value, $3,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., average 6. Bakeries,  3 ; value  of stock used,  $121,500 ;  value  of  Dread m'd
$160,580 ; cap., $13,000 ; hands emp., 26.
Breweries, 1 ; value of stock used, $4,445 ; bbls. of Beer m'd, 881; value, $6,067 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $15,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Firewood Md Dark, cords prepared for market, 3,025 ; value, $24,200 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 30.
Farms, 20 ; acres, 700 ; value of same, including Buildings, $50,000; acres of land improved, 300 ; persons emp., 45.
Unimproved Land, acres, 700. Unimprovable  Laud,  acres,  100,
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	157
EssEX Co.	LAWRENCE,
•
Woodland, acres, 500 ; value, $75,000.
Indian Com, acres, 42 ; bush., 1,680 ; value, $1,680.
Wheat, acres, 10 ; bush., 150 ; value, $262.50; Rye, acres, 15!; bush., 279 ; value, $306.90. Barley, acres, 5 ; bush., 105; value, $157.50. Oats, acres, 22 ; bush., 440 ; value, $330.50.
Potatoes, acres, 145 ; bush., 10,875 ; value, $8,156.25.
Turnips cultivated as a  field  crop, acres, 4 ; bUBh., 1,200 ; t"alue, $600.
Onions, acres, l ; bush., 100 ; value, $200.
Carrots, acres,  ; bush., 150 ; value, $175.
Cabbage, acres, 2 ; value, $650.
Winter Squash, acres, l!; value, $475.
Market Gardening, acres, 25 ; value of products, $9,500.
Beets  and   other  esculent  vegetables,  acres,   10 ;  bush.,  4,000 ; value
$3,000.
English Mowing, acres, 325 ; tons of English hay, 287 ; value, $7,175.
Wet Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, 23 ; tons of  wet meadow  or   swalc
hay, 27 ;  value, $824.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,500 ; value of apples, $8,750 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,000 ; value of pears, $1,000 ; all other trees cultinted ·for their fruit, 2,500 ; value of fruit, $500 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $105.
Horses, 600 ; value, $60,000 ; Oxen over four years old, 24 ; value of oxen, $1,920 ; Milch Cows, 75; Heifers, 10 ; value of cows and heifers, $3,200; gallons of Milk sold, 15,000 ; value, $3,000 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 1,000 ; value, $800.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 15,000 ; value, $4,500. Pork, dressed, lbs., 90,000; value, $16,200. Mutton, dressed, lbs. 600; value, $90.
Vea1, dressed, lbs., 8,000 ; value, $1,000.
Swine, 1,036 ; value, $12,4:32; value of Poultry sold, $152.25; value of Eggs sold $75; lbs. of Honey, 200; value, $60 ; value of unenu­ merated  articles of Farm Produce, $375.
Establishments  for  manufacture  of  articles  not  elsewhere  enumerated,
2 ;  value  of   Power   Loom,  Harnesses,   and   Leather   Board  m'd,
$26,099.67 ; value  of stock used, $18,494.71 ; cap.,  $20,000 ; m.
emp., 14; f. emp., 28.
158	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
LYNN.	EssEx  Co.


LYNN.
Machinery,  establishmelits  for  m. of, 4;  gross value  of  stock used,
$5,600 ; value  of  machinery  m'd, $10,200;  cap.,  $11,000; hands
emp., 15.
Mechanics'   Tools  m'd   and   not   elsewhere   enumerated,   gross value,
$5,523.18; value of stock used, $2,650 ; cap., $3,150; hands emp., 10.
Iron Railing and Iron Fences, shops for  m. of, 1; value of stock  used,
$2,000 ; value of iron railing, iron fences, and iron safes m'd, $8,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Printing and  Newspaper Establishments, 8 ;value of stock used, $6,400 ;
Newspapers and Periodicals printed, (Lynn Bulletin, and Lynn Reporter,) 2 ; issued weekly; gross value, $10,000; cap., $5,000 ; value of  all  other  Printing  done, $9,500 ; cap., $5,000;  m. emp., 9.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; value of bookbinding done, $1,000 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1,
Daguerreian  and Photographic  Establishments,  5;  value of  stock  used,
$2,400 ;  daguerreotypes   and   photographs   taken,  88,500 ; value,
$7,875 ; cap., $2,800 ; m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 4.
Looking-Glasses and Picture Frames, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; articles m'd, 1,000 ; value $2,000 ; cap.,$800; hands emp., 2.
Saddles and Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; har­ nesses m'd, 82; value,  $1,400 ; value  of  stock  used,  $950; cap.,
$900 ; hands emp., 4-l.
Upholstery Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $750 ; value of upholstery m'd, $1,225 ; cap., $450; m. emp., 8.
Cordage Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $450 ; value of small lines m'd $1,200 ; cap., $100; hands emp., 1,
Boats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of materials used, $1,500; boats built, 1; value, $2,000; cap., $800; hands emp., (three months,) 8.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 2 ; number m'd, 14 sleighs and 4 wagons ; value, $1,700 ; value of stock used, $780 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 8. Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,524; lbs. of confectionery  made,  8,000 ; value,  $2,600;  cap.,  $500 ; m.
emp., 1.
Ink Manufactories,  1; value of stock used, $1,150 ; value of ink m'd,
$2,450 ; cap., $900 ; m. emp., 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	159
Ess&x  Co.	LYNN.

Clothing, establishments for m. of, 5 ; value of stock used, $25,800 ; value of clothing m'd, $84:,200 ; cap., $10,500; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 47.
Coffee Mills, 2 ; value of stock med, $22,500 ; lbs. coffee m'd, 144,000 ; value, $19,800 ; cap., $24,000 ; bands emp., 12.
Spices, value prepared  for market,  $20,000.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of,  1; value of
stock  used,  $1,900 ; Gravestones  and  Monument.8 m'd,  60 ; value,
$3,500 ; cap., $900 ; bands emp., 8.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock med, $4,500 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 850 ; value, $1,150 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 46,000 ; value, $5,280 ; cap., $4,200 ; bands emp., 7.
Master Builders, 21 ; Buildings erected, 65 ; value; $124,250 ; value of materials used, $90,167 ; bands emp., 101.
Blacbmith Shope, 10 ; value of stock used, $7,960 ; value of work done,
$28,450; cap., $12,500;  bands emp., 29.
Tm Ware Manufactories, 6 ; value of stock used, $2,175 ; value of tin ware m'd, $8,500 ; cap., $8,800 ; bands emp.,  19.
Glue Manufactories, and manufactorica for the preparation of Gums, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,900 ; value of glue and gums m'd, $9,800 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush., of Grain ground, 80,000 ; value, $165,000 ;
cap., $20,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Morocco Manufactories, 16 ; value of stock used, $758,500 ; Hides tanned and finished,  618,996;  value  of  skins tanned  and  curried,
$993,055 ; cap., $855,500 ; bands emp., 258.
Boots and Shoes, establishments for m. of, H6; pairs of all kinds m'd, 5,359,821; gross value of stock used, $5,287,309 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $8,817,711 ; cap., $1,677,900 ; m. emp., 6,984; £  emp., 4,984.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 450,000 ; value, $2,700 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 7.
Pumps, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $700 ; value
· of pumpe m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 2.
Last and Shoe-peg Manufactories, 5 ; value of stock used, $8,700 ; lasts and pattems, m'd, 90,600 ; value, 25,800 ; cap., $16,600 ; bands emp., 24.
Coffins and Buri.al Cases of all kinds, 8; value of stock used, $2,110 ;
coffins made, !SO ; value, $5,150 ; cap., $4,lOO ; bands emp., 5.
PlaDing Milla and establisbment.s for m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 2 ; value of stock used,  (included  in  returns  of  wooden  boxes;)  value  of  work   done,   $12,500  ; cap.,   $10,000  ; bands  emp.,  9.
160	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
LYNN,	ESSEX   Co.

Boxes, establishments for m. o 6 ; value of stock used, $78,200 ; value of wooden boxes made, $78,000 ; value of paper boxes, $21,200 ; cap., $17,000; m. emp., 82 ; f. emp., 19.
Gas, establishment.a for m. o 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; valuts of gas m'd, $17,500 ; cap., $64,100 ; hands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishment.a for preservation o 2 ; tons of ice pre­ served, 10,000 ; value, $6,000 ; cap., $11,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Bakeries,   8 ; value  of   stock  used,   $51,000 ;  value  of   Bread   m'd,
$71,000 ; cap., $7,500; hands emp., 18.
Breweries, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,487 ; bbls. beer 19'd, 875 ; value,
$3,675 ; cap., $2,200 ; hands emp., 4.
Shell Fish, bush., taken, 1,800 ; value, $975 ; hands emp., 6.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon bbls., 100 ; value,  $500 ; hands emp., 5.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 1; tonnage, 125; value, $6,000 ; amount received  for freight,  $4,500 ;  hands emp., 5.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of building stone quarried and prepared for market, $1,868 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 856 ; value, $4,185 ;
cap., $1,800;  hands emp., 24.
Farms, 25 ; acres, 1,279 ; value, including Buildings, $128,800; acres of land improved, 897 ; persons emp., 82.
Indian Com, acres, 28i; bush., 1,804 ; value, $2,528. Rye, acres, 12t ; bush., 790 ; value, $907.
Barley, acres, 12 ; bush., 285 ; value, $816.50.
Potatoes, acres, 112 ; bush., 10,000 ; value, $10,454.75.
Turnips, cultivated as a field crop, 91;  bush., 8,277 ; value,  $1,549.75.
Onions, acres, St ; bush., 1,218; value, $1,947. Carrots, rods, 5f ; bush., 2,475; value, $1,127.50. Cabbage, acres, 24!; value, $14,558.
Winter Squash, acres, 8l ; value, $670.
Market  Gardening, acres, 74;  value,  $21,466.
Beets and other  esculent vegetables, acres, 6i ; bush., 2,46 ; value,
$1,845.
English  Mowing, acres, 517 ;	ns of English  hay, 595 ; value, $17,155.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 86 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 27 ; value,   $849,
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 126; tons salt hay, 107 ; value,  $2,190.
Apple-trees cultivated foi: their fruit, 17,807 ; value of apples, $4,828.50 ;
Pear-trees    cultivated    for   their    fruit,   21,870;   value    of  pears,
$11,107.50 ; all other trees  cultivated for their fruit, 8,248; value,
·1865.]	INDUSTRY OF )L\SSACHUSETTS.	161
ESSEX  Co.	LYNNFIELD.

$275 ; value  of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or  gathered for   market,
$1,403.25 ; bush. Grapes, 489 ; value $2,445 ; bush. Currents, 440 ; value, $880.
Sheep, 5 ; value,  $50; lbs. of Woo], 40; value,  $24.
Horses, 719 ; value, $100,735; Asees, 2 ; value, $80 ; Oxen over four years old, 8 ; value $850 ; Milch Cows, 282 1 Heifers, 17 ; value of cows  and  heifers,  $15,500 ;  gallons  of   Milk  sold,  74,654 ; value,
$17,315.40 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 40 ; value, $20.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 75,000 ; value, $9,000.
Pork, dl"eMed, lbe., 151,874: ; value,  $30,375.80.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 5,000 ; value, $600.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 3,500 ; value, $350.
Swine, 439 ; v!llue, $11,905.50 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,598 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,297.80 ; lbs. of Honey, 20 ; value, $7 ; value of unenumerated articles of fann produce, $960.
Establishments for the m. of articles not elsewhere enumerated, 2 ; value of Tobacco  Pipes  and  Cement,  $800 ; value  of  stock  used,
$425 ; cap., $300; m. emp., 3.
Shoemakers' Wax, establishments for making, I ; bbls. wax m'd, 120 ;
value, $1,000.
Machine  Needles,  establishments  for m.  of, 2 ; value  of  stock used,
$550; value of needles m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Heeling Stock, Stiffenings, Tap-soles, Inner-soles, &c., establishments for
m. of, 10; value of stock used, $80,000 ; value of heeling stock made,
$1i,400;  value of stiffenings, $9,450 ; value of tap and inner  soles,
$10,900 ; cap., $7,800 ; m. emp., 17 ; f. emp., 27.


LYNNFIELD.
Detached parts of Piano Fortes, establishments for m. of, I ; value m'd,
$6,000 ; cap., $3,000.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagone, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; number m'd, 4 wagons, 7 sleighs ; value,
$470; value of  stock used, $150 ; cap., $300;  hands emp., I.
Blacksmith Shope, 2 ; value of stock used, $1#00 ; value of work done,
$3,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., .
Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 16,000 ; groee value of stock used, $11,500 ;
value of shoes m'd, $18,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 16 ; £ emp., 5.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $2,000 ; hands emp., 3.
21
162	STATISTIC.S- OF  THE

[1865.
LYNNFIELD.	EssEx Co.
Saw  Mills,  1; feet  of  Lumber   prepared  for  market, 40,000 ; value,
$800•   .
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,509 ; value, $5,882.
1	Farms, 85 ; acres,  6,092 ; value,  including  Buildings,  $96,440 ; acres of  land improved, 2,411 ; persons emp., 150.
Unimproved Land, acres, 530. Unimprovable Land, acres, 15. Woodland,  acres,  3,186;  value, $9,480.
Indian Com, acres, 67 ; bush., 1,603; value, $2,405. Rye, acres, 61; bush., 96!; value, $193.
Barley, acres, 71; bush., 51; value, $89.25. Oats, acres, 2 ; bush., 30 ; value, $30.
Potatoes, acres, 801; bush., 8,786 ; value, $2,889.50.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5!; bush., 815 ; value, $208.75. Onions, acres, 2f ; bush., 1,083 ; value, $2,066.
Carrots, acres, 3 ; bush., 1,246 ; value, $498.40. Cabbage, acres, 2!; value, $249.
Wmter Squash, acres, f ; value, $150. Garden Seeds, acres, t ; value, $60.
Market Gardening, acres, 15 ; value of products, $2,900.
Beets and other esculent  vegetables,  acres,  2!; bush., 305 ; value,
$345 ; value of 'Garden Seeds prepared for market, $60.
English Mowing, acres, 373; tons  English  hay,  342;  value, $10,260.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 415 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 325 ; value, $4,875.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 65 ; salt hay, tons, 57 ; value, $1,140.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,741 ; value of apples, $1,321 ; Pear-trees cultivated · for their fruit, 503 ; value of pears, $47 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit,  80 ; value  of  fruit,  $16; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered  for  market, $90.
Sheep, 2 ; gross value, $40 ; lbs. Wool, 11; value, $5.
Horses,  87 ;  value,  $8,935 ;  Oxen  over  four  years  old,  24 ; value,
$2,250 ; Milch Cows, 209 ; Heifers, 27 ; value of cows and  heifers,
$11,510; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulls,) $120 ; gallons of Milk sold, 86,598 ;  value,  $5,847 ;  lbs.  of Butter sold,
1,892 ; value, $796.
Bee dressed, lbs., 9,835 ; value, $945. Pork, dressed, lbs., 29,070 ; value, $5,168. Veal, dressed, lbs., 3,500 ; value, $240.
Swine, 54 ; value, $1,232 ; value of Poultry sold, $265 ; value of Eggs sold, $315 ; lbs. of Honey, 48; value, $18; lbs. of Beeswax, 5 ; value, $2.50.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	168
EssEx  Co.	MANCHESTER.

Establishment.a for manufacture of articles not elsewhere enumerated, (for chipping Barberry Root for coloring purposes,) 1; tons chipped, 12 ; value, $900 ; Lobster Pot.s m'd, 175 ; value, $262.50 ; hands emp., 2.


MANCHESTER.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $500; value  of work  done,
$700 ; cap., $700 ; bands emp., 2.
Cabinet Manufuctories, 17 ; value of stock used, $20,850 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $92,625 ; cap., $42,950 ; hands emp., 108.
Tanning and Currying Establishment.a, 1 ; value of stock used, $15,000 ; Hides tanned, 5,000 ; hides tanned and curried, 5,000 ; value of leather tanned and curried, $20,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 10 Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, b,000; gross value of stock used,•$8,000 ;
value of boots m'd, $12,000; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 15; £ emp., 3.
Casks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,600; casks m'd, 32,600;  value,  $11,800 ;  cap., $10,600 ; hands emp., 6.
Planing Mills and Establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 8 ; value of work done, $8,600 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 150 ; value, $400 ; cap.,  $500.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $5,260; value of Bread m'd, $8,000 ; cap., $1,600; hands emp., 1.
Saw  Mills,  2 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market, 270,000 ; value,
$5,000 ; cap., $4,200 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market,cords, 2,509 ; value, $10,545 ;
cap., $4,690 ; hands emp., 2.
Farms, 25 ; acres, 1,275 ; value, including Buildings, $95,720 ; acres improved, 473; persons emp., 50.
Gnimproved Land, acres, 347. Unimprovable Land, acres, 78. Woodland,  acres, 382;  value, $14,775.
Indian Corn, acres, 20 ; bush., 561; value, $1,102.
Rye, acres, 1; bush., 15;  value, $80.
Berley, acres, 12; bush., 203; value, S287. Potatoes, acres, 84; bush., 2,293 ; value, $2,513.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 21;  bush., 330;  value, $112.
Onions, acres, 51; bush., 815 ; value, $1,500.
164	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
MARBLEHEAD.	EsSEx Co.

Carrota, acres, 1l; bush., 710 ; value, $216.
Cabbage, acres, 5!; value, $728. Winter SqwtBh, acres, 2 ; value, $886.
Garden Seeds, acres, l; value,  $117.
Market Gardening, acres, 27 ; value of products, $4,597.
Beets and other esculent  vegetables,  acres, l ; bush.,  115 ; value, $152.
Cranbenii>.s, acres, 2i ; bush., 90 ; value, $420.
English  Mowing,  acres,  294 ;  tons  of   English  hay,   840 ;   value,
$10,525.
Wet Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, 21l ; tons of wet	eadow or swale
hay, 43 ; value, $228.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 42; tons of salt hay, 41 ; value, $555.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,855 ; value of apples, $8,245 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 898 ; value of pears, $317 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 65 ; value of fruit, $25 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $8,003.
Honies,	O ;  value,  $8,810 ; Oxen  over  four  years old,  34 ; value,
$3,010 ; Milch Cows, 72 ; Heifers, 18; value of cows and heifers,
$4,190 ; value of leat Stock not embraced above, (50 Calves,) $496 ; gallons of Milk sold, 10,100 ; value, $2,589 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 565 ; value, $287.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 9,440 ; value, $1,531.
Swine, 82 ; value, $446 ; value of Poultry sold, $170 ; value of Eggs sold, $420; lbs. of Honey, 135; value, $40 ; value of unenumerated articles of F Produce, $620.


MARBLEHEAD.

Boats, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of materials used, $450 ; boats built, 2 ; value, $750 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 8.
Sail Lofts, 2; Sails made of Am. fabric,  14 ; value of fabric,  $1,400 ;
value of  sails,  $1,750.
Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500; lbs. of confectionery made, 100 ; value, $350 ; cap., $250 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $8,600 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 3 ; f. emp., 8. Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 1; value, $700 ; value of mate­
rials used, $500 ; hands emp., 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	165
Easn: Co.	M.t.RBL1t1DAD.

Bwbmith Shope, 8; value of stock uaed, $800 ; value  of work done,
$420 ; cap., $200 ; hands  emp., 4.
Tin Ware Manufactoriee, 2 ; value  of stock  used,  $700 ; value  of tin
ware m'd, $900 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 8.
Glue :Manufactoriee, and. Manufactories for preparation of Goms, 1; value of stock used, $8,000; value of glue  and  gums  m'd,  $6,000; cap.,  $3,000  ;  hands  emp., 4.
Shoes,  pairs   of  all  kinds  m'd,  1,320,480;  gross  value  of  stock  used,
$M3,750; value of shoes m'd, $767,218 ; cap., $228,860 ; m. emp., 671 ; £ emp., 872.
Boxes, establishment. for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value
of  wooden boxes made,  $7,000 ; value of paper boxes made, $6,000  ;
cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 10; £ emp., 6.
Gas, establishment. for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,603; value of
gas m'd, $4,885 ; cap., $40,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 500 ; value, $700 ; hands emp., 15.
Bakeries, 4 ; value of stock used, $24,175; value of Bread m'd, $29,010; cap., $2,800 ; hands  emp.,   11.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 28 ;	nna,e. 1,792 ; bbls.
of mackerel taken, 420 ; value, $5,180 ; qtls. of codfish taken, 19,514 ; value, $149,025 ; value of cod liver oil sold, $9,979 ; value of salt consumed, $15,390 ; cap., $92,000 ; hands emp., 184.
Coutwiae  or  Carrying  Trade,  vessels  engaged   in,  2 ; tonnage,   896 ;
value, $18,000 ; amount received for &eight, $7,i20 ; hands emp., 13.
Farms, 55 ; acres, 1,792 ; value, including Buil4ings, $249,680; acre,
of land improved, 1,083; pel'IOD8 emp., 185.
Unimproved Land, acres, 618.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 96.
lodiao Com, acres, 9; bush., 868; value, $1,640. Rye, acres, 8; bush., 60 ; value, $120.
Barley, acres, 6; buah., 140 ; value, $210. Potatoes, acres, 72 ; bush., 11,878 ; value, $16,012.
Turnipe, cultivated  ae  a field  crop,  acres,  12 ;  bush.,  8,880 ; value,
$1,090.
Onions, acres, 108; bush., 28,990 ; value, $86,211.
C-arrota, acres, 10 ; bush., t>,769; value, $1,9lt>. Cabbage, acres, 24; value, $2,288•.
Winter Squash, acNl8, 83 ; value, $7,090.
Market  Gardening, acres, 5 ; value of  product.a, $680.
166	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
METHUEN.	ESSEX  Co.

Beets  and  other  esculent  vegetables,  acres,  21; bush., 1,800 ; value,
$3,376 ; value of Garden Seeds prepared for market, $1,175.
English  Mowing,  acres,  544 ;  tou of   English  bay,   786 ; value,
$23,640.
Apple-trees cultivated  for  their  fruit, 8,048; value  of apples,  $3,315 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 308 ; value of pears, $25.
Sheep, 20 ; value, $140.
Horses,  113 ;  value, $9,450 ; Oxen over  four years  old,  20 ; value,
$2,000 ; Milch  Cows, 150 ; Heifers,  4 ; value  of cows and heifers,
$6,000 ; gallons of Milk sold, 47,612 ; value, $9,542.
Swine, 39 ; value, $1,334 ; value of Poultry sold, $40; value of Eggs sold, $124.
Heel  Manufactory,   1; heels  m'd,  863,815; value  of stock,  $9,000 ;
value of  heels m'd, $17,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 10 ; f. emp., 4.


METHUEN.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 4,560 ; cap., $90,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Woollen Mills,"l ; sedi of machinery, 8 ; lbs.of Scoured Wool consumed, 200,000 ; gross value of stock used, $200,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 150,000 ; value, $200,000; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 250,000 ; value, $150,000 ; cap., $150,000 ; m. emp., 67 ; f. emp., 63.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of bookbinding done,  $500 ; m. sp., 1.
Hat and Cap Manufactories, 6 ; value of stock used, $158,200 ; hats and caps m'd, 807,884 ; value, $2a7,920 ; cap., $75,800 ; m. emp., 105 ; f. emp., 56.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; vehicles m'd, 7 ; value, $1,070 ; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $550 ; hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $3,300 ; value of work done, $6,600 ; cap., $2,500; hands emp., 8.	· Tin Ware Manufactories,  1; value of stock used,  $tfoO ; value of tin
ware m'd; $1,200 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 55,580 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 54,970; gross value of stock used, $112,014 ; value  of  boots  and shoes m'd, $188,682 ; cap., $34,000 ; m. emp., 150 ; £ emp.,    82•.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; coffins made, 200 ; value, $1,600; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2.	·
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	167
Esstx  Co.	METHUEN.

Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,500 ; value of wooden boxes made, $5,000 ; value of paper boxes made, $2,400; cap., $7,800 ; m. emp., 7 ; £ emp., 2.
Jee for market, establishments for preservation .of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 80 ; value, $500 ; cap., $800; hands emp., 1. .
Saw  Mills,  1; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  55,000 ;  value,
$1,100 ; hands emp., 1.
Firewood and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 1,084 ; value, $3,716.
Farms, 223; acres, 9,785; value, including Buildings, $606,400 ; acres improved, 4,016;  persons emp.,  289.
[The above does not include the land of non-residents, which is 2,3281 acres; value, $125,407. Half of this is woodland ; value, $70,000 ; the residue pasturing ; value, $55,407.]
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,435. Unimprovable Land, acres, 256. Woodland, acres, 2,078 ; value, $68,530.
Indian Corn, acres, M8 ; bush.,.7,179; value, $11,082.
Wheat, acres, 81; bush., 97 ; value, $208. Rye, acres, 27l ; bush., 419 ; value, $661.
Barley, acres, 17  ; bush., 408;  value, $889.	•
Buckwheat, 5 ; bush., 71 ; value, $94.
Oats, acres, 98 ; bush., 2,805 ; value, $2,585.
All other Grain Crops, acres, 8; bush., 10 ; value, $82. Herdsgraas Seed, bush., 5 ; value, $20.
Potatoes, acres, ·188 ; bush., 19,791; value, $15,588.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 9; bush., 2,291; value, $900. Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 255 ; value, $106.
Cabbage, acres, 8; value, $818. W'"mter Squash, acres, 1; value, $57.
Market Gardening, acres, 10 ; value of products, $858.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 5 ; bush., 1,167 ; value, S882 ; value of Garden Seeds prepared for market, $3.
Cranberries, acres, 16 ; bush., 85 ; value, $204.
English  Mowing,  acres,· 2,047 ; tons  of  English hay, 2,556 ;  value,
$68,900.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 721 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 681 ; value, $6,974.
Appltrees cultivated for their fruit, 19,828 ; value of apples, $7,401 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 729; value of pears, $788; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 4'16; value of fruit, $100 ; value of Nots or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $142.
168	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
MIDDLBTOM.	EsSEx  Co.

Merino Sheep, of different grades, 2 ; all other kinds of sheep, 191; gross value of all sheep, $1,184;·lbs.of Merino Wool, 12 ; value, $7; lbs. of all other wool produced, 150; value, $299.
Hol'8e8, 248; value, $21,840; Oxen over four years.old, 149 ; Steers under four years old, 56 ; value of oxen and steers, $14,056 ; Milch Cows, 644 ; Heifers, 98; value of cows and heifers, $28,775; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (Bulls and Calves,) $790 ; gallons of Milk sold, 189,653.; value, $25,822; lbe. of Butter sold, 10,727; value, $8,509 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 850; value, $122.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 18,164 ; value, $2,183. Pork, dre888d, lbs., 50,268; value, $16,050. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,500 ; value, $225. Veal, dreB88d, lbs., 4,530 ; value, $544.
Swine, 191; value, $8,540 ; value of Poultry sold, $884 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,068 ; lbs. of Honey, 240 ; value, $90; lbe. Beeswax, 13; value, $7 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, $853.



MIDDLETON.

Cutlery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $250; doz. Shoe Knives m'd, 170 ; value, $425; cap., $300; hands   emp., 2.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 150 ; value, $15,000 ; tons printing paper m'd, 100 ; value, $25,000; cap., $12,000; m. emp., 7; £ emp., 8.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $13,950 ; bbls. soft  soap  m'd,  1,675;   value,  $7,200 ; lbs.  hard   soap  m'd,  1,400 ;
value, $2,000 ; value of all other soaps m'd, $10,000; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $800; value of work done,
$900 ; cap., $500 ; h&Dds emp. 2.
Shoes,  pairs  of  all kinds  m'd,  134,000 ;  gross  value  of  stock used,
$106,500 ; value of shoes m'd, $210,500 ; cap., $32,000; m. emp., 125 ; £ emp., 75.	·
Saw Mills,  1;  feet  of  lumber  prepared  for  market,  800,000; value,
$6,000; cap., $2,000; hands emp.,  2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,486 ; value, $17,714 ; cap., $5,000;  hands  emp., 24:.
Farms, 71; acres, 4,821; value, including Buildings, $176,005 ; acres of land improved, 1,471 ; persons emp., 193.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	169
Essu  Co.	NAHANT.

Unimproved Land, acres, 4,259. Unimprovable Land, acres, 75. Woodland, acres, 1,896 ; value, $47,890.
Indian Coro, acres, 49 ; bush., 1,400 ; value, $2,100. Rye, acres, 2 ; bush., 80 ; value, $50.
Barley, acres, 20 ; bush., 267 ; value, $400.
Oats, acres, 2 ; bush., 40 ; value, $40.
Potatoes, acres, 59 ; bush., 5,462 ; value,  $5,462• .
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2 ; bllSh., 800 ; value, $475. Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $100.
Winter Squash, acres, 2 ; value, $200. Cranberries, acres, 80 ; bush., 10;  alue, $40.
English  Mowing, acres, 695;  tone of English  bay, 572;  value,  $17,160.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 996; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 7.72 ; value, $7,772.
Appltrees cultivated for their fruit, 8,608 ; va1oe of applee, $2,230 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for illeir fruit, 100 ;  value  of  pears,  $125; value of Nuta or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $809.
Sheep, 7 ; value, $40 ; lbs. Wool produced, 28 ; value, $25.
Horses, 78 ; value, $6,155 ; Oxen over four years  old,  44;  Steers under four years old, 2 ; value of oxen and @teen, $4,465 ; Milch Cows, 192 ; Heifers, 25 ; value of cows and heifers, $8,068 ; gallons of  Milk  sold,  8,990 ;  value, $1,798 ; lbs. Butter sold, 6,950 ; value,
$2,780• .
Beef, dressed, lbs., 14,700 ; value, $1,764. Pork, dressed, lbs., 83,048 ; value, $5,617. Veal, dressed, lbs., <&,562 ; value, $743.
Swine, 49 ; value, $864- ; value of Poultry sold, $810 ; value of  Eggs
sold, $1,087; lbs. Honey, 95; value, $28.


NAHANT.

Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 6 ; value, $12,000 ; value of materials used, $7,829 ; bands emp., 7.
Mackerel  and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 2 ; to,nage, 80 ; bbls.
mackerel taken, 50 ; value, $500 ; quintals of codfiab taken, 500 ; value, $8,000; value of Cod Liver Oil sold, $700 ; value of Salt coD8111Ded, $100 ; cap., $5,000 ; bands emp., 12.
Shell Fish taken, Lobsters, 150,000 ; value, ·$9,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 20.
22
170	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.

NEWBURY.	EssEx Co.

Farms, 3 ; acres, 225 ; value, including Buildings, $106,500 ; acres of land improved, 130 ; persons emp., 10.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 95.
Indian Com, acres, 6; bush., 00 ; value, $500. Barley, acres, l ; bush., 30 ; value, $30.
Pot.at.oes, acres, 5 ; bush., 375 ; value, $400.
Tumips cultivated as a field crop, acre!, t; bush., 50 ; value, $15. Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $175.
Winter Squash, acres 1; value, $100.
Market Gardening, acres, 2 ; value  of products, $200.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 1 ; bush., 800 ; value, $100. Basket Willow cultivated, acres, t; value, $40.	·
English Mowing, acres, 45; tons English hay, 88; value, $1,830. Salt Marsh mown, acres, 4  tons of salt hay, 2 ; value, $25.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,640 ; value of apples, $100 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 290 ; value of  pears,  $200 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $250.
Horses, 88 ; value, $8,800 ; Oxen over four years old, 4 ; value, $400 ; Milch Cows, 45 ; Heifers, 4 ; value of cows and heifers, $1,880 ;
gallons of Milk sold, 2,602; value, $987. Pork, dressed, lbs;, 15,000 ; value, $2,250. Swine, 60 ; value, $800.


NEWBURY.
Woollen Mills, 1 ; sets woollen machinery, 8 ; lbs. Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 25,000 ; gross value of stock used, $81,000 ; lbs. woollen yam m'd not made into cloth, 32,000 ; value, $37,000 ; m. emp., 18; f. emp., 9.
Blacksmith Shope, ; value of stock used, $1,400 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 5.
Flouring Mills, 8 ; bush. Grain ground, 75,000 ; value, $80,000 ; cap.,
$15,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Brick Yards, 1 ; bricks m'd, 70,000 ; value, $500 ; cap., $850; hands emp., 2.
Snuff, value m'd, $2,500 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; cap., $1,200 ;
m. emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 1 ; feet of .Lumber prepared for market, 125,000 ; value, value, $8,750.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	171
Esssx  Co.	NEWBURY.

Farms, 180; acres, 9,443; value, including  Buildings,  $277,930; acres
of land improved, 1,787 ; persons emp., 231. Unimproved  Land, acres, 7,656.
Woodland, acres, 815 ; value, $30,467.
Indian Com, acres, 162 ; bush., 7,046 ; value, $10,643. Wheat, acres, 11 ; bush., 126 ; value, $246.
Rye, acres, 2 ; bush., 42 ; value, $i5· Barley, acres, 74 ; bush., 933 ; value, $1,375. Oats, acres, 2 ; bush., 25 ; value, $20.
Potatoes, acres, 127 ; bush., 14,436 ; value, $11,906. Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 381 ; bush., 155. Onions, acres, 45 ; bush., 16,598; value, $24,409.
Carrots, bush., 930 ; value, $305. Cabbage, value, $542.
Market  Gardening, value of  products,  $715.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, bush., 858 ; value, $359. Cranberries, acres, 8; bush., 40 ; value, $120.
English Mowing, acres, 1,074 ; tons English hay, 977 ; value, S27,666.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 170 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  167 ; value, $1,815.
Salt llarsh mown, acres, 2,212 ; ton.'! salt hay, 2,422 ; value, $28,331. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,087 ; value of apples, $7,414 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 110; value of pears, $171 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $47.
Sheep, 173 ; value, $879 ; lbe. of Wool produced, 135.	• Horses, 157 ; value; $12,260 ; Oxen  over  four  years  old, 239 ; Steers
under four years old, 117 ; value of oxen and steers, $20,688 ; Milch Cows, 536 ; Heifers, 109 ; value of cows and heifers, $16,828; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulls,) $200 ; gallons of Milk sold, 50,920 ; value, $7,811 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,481 ; value, $2,079 ; lbe. of Cheese, 1,430 ; value, $436.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 32,095 ; value, $8,255. Pork, dressed, lbs., 49,201 ; value, $9,298. VeaJ, dressed, lbe., 14,833 ; value, $2,181.
Swine, 198; value, $2,258; Yalue  of  Poultry  sold,  $1,088 ; value  of
Eggs BOid, $1,649,
172
STATISTICS  OF THE
(1865.
NEWBURYPORT.

Essu:. Co.


NEWBURYPORT.

Cotton Mills, 5 ; spindles, 58,692 . lbs. of cotton consumed, 1,949,517 ; gross value of stock used, $212,508.28; yards of cotton Cloth m'd, 7,659,852 ; gross value, $2,497,228.66 ; lbs. of Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 2,866 ; gross value, $1,508.66; cap., $960,000 ; m. emp., 260 ; f. emp., 642.	•
Forges, 81 ; value of stock used, (for work of one trip-hammer,) $1,200 f"
tons of Bar Iron, Anchors, Chain Cables, and other articles of wrought iron m'd, 8; value, $2,400 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock ·used, $12,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 285 ; value, $28,500 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $1,400 ; value of machinery m'd, $H,500 ; cap., $6,000;  hands emp., 15.
Locomotives, Steam-Engines, and Boilers, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $950 ; steam-engines built, (1 Stationary Engine,· 5 Portable,) 6 ; value, $8,500 ; cap., $6,000 ; bands emp., 15.
Iron Railing, Iron Fences, and Iron Safes, shops for m. of, 1; hands emp. in fitting up fences, 2.
Bl'888 Foundries, 1; value of stock used, $87,818.05; value of Ship Work, Spikes, Rudder Bands, &c., m'd, $44,454.28 ; cap., $8,500 ; hands emp., 10.
Chemical Preparations, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$1,000 ; value of chemical preparations m'd, $8 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $6,750; newspapers and periodicals printed, (Daily Herald, Semi-Weekly Herald, and Gospel Herald, weekly,)  8 ; gross value,  $18,850 ; cap.,
$17,500 ; value  of all other printing done, $4,000 ; cap.  invested  in
printing, $5,000 ; m. emp., 14 ; £ emp., 6.
Bookbinderies,   1; value  of stock  used,  $700 ; value  of bookbinding
done,  $2,232 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp:, 2 ; £ emp., 2.
Sewing Machine Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $7,987 ; sewing machines m'd, 500 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $8,500; hands emp., 11. Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 5 ; value of stock used,
$1,370 ;  daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,  15,300 ; value,
$7,650 ; cap , $8,450 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 2.
•See eatimated nlue or atock u1ed ill Ship Yard,, Spar Yarde, and Blackamith Shope.
18.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS . 	178
EssEX  Co.	NEWBURYPORT.

Chronometers, Watches, Gold aod Silver Ware, and Jewelry, tstablieh­ meota for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; chronometer and lever watches m'd, 80 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 8.
Brwm Manufactories, .1 ; value  of stock used,  $10,000 ; brushes m'd,
720,000 ; value, $25,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 80 ; f. emp., uO.
Saddles, Harnesees and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; har­ nesses m'd, 30; value, $1,500; value of stock used, $900; cap.,$1,000; haods emp., 4.
Upholstery Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value of upholstery m'd, $250; cap., $200; m. emp., 1.
Hat and Cap Manumctorie11, 2 ; value of stock used, $195,074 ; hats m'd, 162,984 ; value, $105,820; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp.,  107 ; f. emp., 82.
Cordage Manufactories, 8 ; value of stock used, $11,064; lbs. of small cords, lines, &c., m'd, 37,800 ; value, $21,564 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 16;  £ emp., 4.
Ship Yards, 10 ; value of materials used, $298,980 ; Veasels launched,
13;  tonnage,   8,128;  value,  exclusive  of  spars,  rigging,  and sails,
$493 80 ; cap., $807,500 ; hands emp., 248.
Boats, establishment., for m. of, 1; value of materials used, $1,000 ;
boats built, 28 ; value, $2,900 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 8.
Mast and Spar Yards or Sheds, 1; value of materials used, $18,000 ; masts and spars m'd, 872 ; value, $24,550 ; cap.,$22,000 ;hands emp., 7.
Sail Lofts, 4 ; Sails made of Am. fabric, 73; value of fabric, $13,842; value of sails, #16,000 ; Sails made of foreign fabric, 516 ; value of fabric, $65,000 ; value of sails, $74,000; cap., $28,500; hands emp., 20.
Carriage Wheels, roanufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; wheeJa m'd, 12 ; value, $:U,6.50; cap., $250 ; hands emp., 1.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 7 ; value of stock used, $15,026 ; value of clothing m'd, $28,785; cap., $7,675 ; m. emp., 9 ; £ erop., 86. Coft'ee Mills, 1; value of stock used, $2,000; lbs. of ooff'ee m'd, 10,000;
value, $2,500 ; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 8.
Marble and other kinds of stone; establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of
stock used,- $2,900 ; Monuments  and  Gravestones  m'd,  295; value,
$10,500 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, S9,000 ; lbe. of tallow candles made, 75,0()0 ; value, $12,750; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 4.
174	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.

NEWBURYPORT,	ESSEX   Co.

Soap, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value.of stock used, $1,116 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 891; value, $1,468 ; lbs. of bard soap m'd, 48,000; value, $5,280 ; cap., $2,400 ; hands emp,, 5.
Master Builders, 18 ; Buildings erected, 7; value, $18,700; value of materials used, $11,800; hands emp., 36.
Blacksmith Shops,  11; value of stock used, $18,535; value of work done,
$28,875; cap:, $18,800 ; bands emp., 29.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 7 ; value of stock used, $4,100.74 ; value of tin ware m'd, $6,850 ; cap., $5,850; bands emp., 17.
Comb Manufactories, 1 ; value of stock used, $70,000 ; dozens of combs m'd, 210,000; value, $110,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; m. emp., 75 ;  f. emp., 26.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dyestuffs, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock  used, $8,000 ; value  of drugs, medicines,  and  dyestuffs m'd,
$16,000 ; cap., U,000 ; m. emp., 6.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. Grain ground, 45,000 ; value, $50,000 ; cap.,
$10,000 ;·hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 79,596; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 3,657 ; gross value of stock used, $105,822 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $160,430 ; cap., $23,000 ; m. emp., 120 ; f. emp., 57.
Brick  Yards,  1; bricks  m'd,  300,000 ; value,  $2,600;  cap., $1,000;
hands emp., 5.
Snuff, Tobacco,  and  Cigars,  value m'd, $85,000 ; value  of  stock   used,
25,860 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 25.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used,
$2,160 ;  value of blocks and  pumps  m'd, $5,948 ; c4., $2,700 ; hands
emp., 11.
Casks, establishments for m. of, 3 ; valoe of stock used, $3,150 ; casks m'd, 2,550 ; value; $4,846.25; cap., $1,350 ; hands emp. 7.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufaciories of, 5 ; value of stock used, $1,625; coffins made, 388 ; value, $3,535 ; cap., $1,025 ; hands emp., 8.
Planing Mills and Establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 2 ; value of  work done, $6,05 ; cap.,$5,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value  of paper boxes made, $1,911 ; cap., $700 ; m. emp., 1 ; f. emp., 4.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of gas m'd, $14,000; cap., $80,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Ice for market, establishments for ·preservation of, 8 ; tons preserved,
22,000 ; value, $16,500 ; cap., $5,500 ; hands emp., 8.
'Bakeries, 8; value of stock used, $69,400 ; value of :hread m'd, $86,4.00 ;
cap., $15,500 ; hands emp., 30. ·
1865]	INDUSTRY OF .MASSACHUSETTS.	175
EssEx  Co.	NEWBURYPORT,

Distilleries, 1; value of stock	$9,500 ; bbls. of Liquors distilled,
. 350 ; value, $24,750 ; cap., $15,000; hands emp., 3.
Breweries,  1; value  of stock  used,  $700; bbls.  of Beer  m'd,  200  ;
value, $1,800 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 77 ; tonnage, 4,018 ; bbls. of mackerel taken, 7,883f ; value, $102,488.75 ; quintale of codfish taken, 8,737; quintale of Pollock and Hake taken, 4,296 ; value, $39,606.20 ; value of cod liver oil sold, (303 bbls.,) $18,635; value   of   salt   consumed,   (19,859  bushels,)    $18,901.30 ; cap.,
$168,826.30; hands emp., 741.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, 47,050 ; value, $18,820 ; cap., $4,285; hands emp., 173.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 13; tonnage, 1,872 ; value, $72,000; amount received for freight, $54,200;  hands  emp., 74.
Saw Mills, (used in ship yards for plank timber, &c.,) ·· 1; value of feet of Lumber prepared for market, (included in value of shipping built ;) cap.,  (see Ship Yards  value ;)  hands  emp., 2.
Farms, 42 ; acres, 2,240 ; value, including Buildings, $143,850; 8Creff
of land improved, 2,196 ; persons emp., 84.
Unimproved Land, acres, 44. Unimprovable Land, acres, 44. Woodland, acres, 60 ; value,  $5,500.
Indian Corn, acres, 91i; bUllh,, 8,287 ; value, $6,574.
Rye, acres, 5l ; bush., 144 ; value, $288. Barley, acres, 22 ; \usb., 349 ; value, $508. Oats, acres, 19; bush., 886 ; value, $386.
Potatoes, acres, 120; bush., a,231; value,  $11,385.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2i; bush., 675 ; value, $135.
Onions, acres, 50; bush., 10,916; value,   $19,650;
Cabbage, acres, 4; value, $865.
:Market Gardening, acres, 18i ; value of  products,  $3,185.
Beets  and  other  esculent  vegetables,  acres, 6 ; bush., 1,640 ; value,
$1,230.
Tobacco, acres, 2f  ; lbs., 1,850;  value, $176.
Cranberries, acres, 1; bush., 20 ; value, $80.
English  Mowing,  acres,   889 ;  tons  of  English  hay,   914 ; value,
$27,480.
Wet  Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 140; tons wet meadow or swale hay,
123;  value, $1,280.
Salt Marsh mown, acres,' 380; tons of salt hay, 310 ; value, $4,340.
176	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
NORTH ANDOVER.	ESSEX   Co.

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,868 ; value of apples, $2,002 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,845 ; value  of pears, $5,881; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,824 ; value of fruit, $288 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $1,60. Merino Sheep, of duferent grades, 18; all other kinds of sheep, 44 ; gross value of all sheep, $844 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 86; value, $86 ;
lbs. of all other Wool produced, 210 ; value, $147.
Horses, 406 ; value, $4,782 ; .Asses and Mules, 1; value, $10 ; Oxen over four years old, 71 ; Steers under four years old, 16 ; value of oxen and steers, $5,645 ; Milch Cows, 826 ; Heifers, 24 ; value of cow11 and heifen, $10,020 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (6 Bulls,) $240 ; gallons of Milk sold, 61,708 ; value, $10,285; lbs. of  Butter  sold, 558 ; value, $222.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 878,874 ; value, $44,864.88. Pork, dressed, lbs., 70,785 ; value, $12,782.80. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 68,800 ; value, $9,800. Veat, dressed, lbs., 48,850 ; value, $6,108.
Swine, 828 ; value, $16,460; value of Egg!! sold, $647 ; lbs. of Honey, 90 ;  value, $86.
Cloth m'd in the family, (Flannel,) yards, 68 ; value; $63 ; value of all
other articles  m'd in the family for sale  and  not   before   enumerated,
$102.
Grapes raised, lbs., 5,290 ; value, $881.67 ; gallons of Wine made, 615 ;  value, $1,280.
Establishments for m. of articles not elsewhere enumerated, 1; sets of Carriage Bara m'd, $1,000 ; value, $1,200 ; value of stock used, $600 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.
Reed Manufactory, 1; value of stock  used,  $500; value  of  reeds m'd,
$1,000 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Silver Ware Manufactory, 1; value  of silver  Spoons  and  Forks m'd,
$10,000 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; cap.,$2,000 ; hands emp., 5.


NORTH	DOVER.

Woollen Mills, 8 ; sets of machinery, 25 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 645,000; groee value of stock used, $737,500 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 2,4,18,400 ; value, $985,000 ; cap., $250,000 ; m. emp., 144 ; f. emp., 106.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iro furnaces for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $43,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 950; value, $76,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 50.
1865.)	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETI'S.	177
Essu  Co.	Noam AN»ovEa.

Cotton,  Woollen, and  other  Machinery,  establishments  for  m. of, 1;
gross  value  of  stock  used,   $200,000 ;  value   of   machinery m'd,
$480,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., 850.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 104; value, $4,160 ; value of stock used, $3,000; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Blacksmith Shops, 8; value of.stock used, $800 ; value of work done, $1,600 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 4.
Ice  for market, establishments  for  preservation  of, 1; tons preserved,
2,800 ; value, $5,600 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Shad taken, 15,631; value, $2,275 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw Mills, 1; feet of Lumber prepared for market,  100,000 ; value,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 1.
Firewood  and  Bark   prepared   for market,  cords,  1,255;  value,   $5,750 ;
hands emp., 10.
Farms, 142; acres, 15,8821; value, including Buildings, $988,058 ;acres improved, 8,231; persons emp., 228.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,1751. Unimprovable Land, acres, 971. Woodland, acres, 5,8781; value, $169,164.
Indian Corn, acres, 2191; bush., 7,187 ; value, $8,265.
Wheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 82 ; value, $50. Rye, acres, 10 f ; bush., 118; value, $120.
Barley, acres, 47 ; bush., 1,110; value, $1,110.
Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 2 ; value, $2. Oats, acres, 118f ; bush., 2,960; value, $1,776.
Potatoes, acres, 188; bush., 13,084 ; value, $9,844.
Turnips eultivat(ld as a field crop, acres, 7; bush., 2,077 ; value, $765.
Onions, acres, -h ; bush., 16 ; value, $80. Ou-rots, acres, 2; bush., 784; value, $226. Cabbage,  acres, Sf ; value, $1,298.
Winter Squash, acres, 4 ; value, $490.
Market Gardening, acres, 2 ; value, $400.
:Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2 ; bush., 500 ; value, $192.
Cranberries, acres, 25 ; bush., 96 ; value, $296.
English  Mowing,  acres, 2,188f ; tons of English hay, 1,765 ; value,
$86,845.	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 976; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 656; value, $4,900.
Apple-trees cultivated for their &uit, 10,696 ; value of apples, $7,514 ;
Pear-trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit, 498 ; value  of  pears, $878 ;
SB
178	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
ROCKPORT.	EssEx  Co.

all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 150; value, $125; value or' Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $8.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 19 ; Merino sheep, of different grades, 4; all other  kinds  of sheep,  119; gross value  of all sheep,
$778 ; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 98 ; value, $45 ; lbs. of merino wool, 16 ; value, $9; lbs. of.all other wool produced, 419 ; value, $265.	•
Horses, 233; value, $22,570 ; Oxen over four years old, 180;   Steers
under four years old, 53 ; value of oxen and steers, $18,232 ; Milch Cows, 561 ; Heifers, 98; value of cows and heifers, $24,700; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (11 Bulls, $267 ; 16 yearling Heifers, $272 ;) $539 ; gallons of Milk sold, 54,985 ; value,. $8,466 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 15,420; value, $.6,172 ; value of butter used in in families, $8,555 ; gross value, $9,727 ; lbs.of Cheese, 1,365 ; value,
$237.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 199,110; value, $20,886. Pork, dressed, lbs., 83,085; value, $13,850. Mutton,	'lbs., 12,03 ; value, $1,760. Veal, dressed, lbs., 17,000; value, $1,840.
Swine,. 279 ; value, $5,089 ; value of Poultry sold, $473 ; value. of Eggs sold, $1,387 ; lbs. of Honey, 239 ; value,$77 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 16; value, $10; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce,
$462.
Loom Harnesses, establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd,_$7,173 ; value, of stock used, $4,304 ; cap., $1,800 ; m. emp., 4; f. emp., 3.


ROCKPORT.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 7,696; cap., $240,000.
Forges,  2 ; value  of  stock  used,   $450 ; tons  of   Bar  Iron,  Anrs,
.  Chain  Cables, and  other ·articles   of  wrought  iron  m'd,  4 ; value,
$1,200 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 3.
Sail Loft.a, 1; sails made of American fabric, 9 ; value of'fabric, $2,000 ; value of sails, $2,400 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing,  establishments   for  the   m.  of,  1;   value  of   stock   used,
$1,500 ; value of  clothing m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $600 ; m. emp., 1;
£ emp., 2.
Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 2; value, $41,250 ; value of the materials used, $30,380 ; hands emp., 26.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	179
Esau Co.	RoCltPORT,

Blacbmith Shops, 2 ; value 9f stock used, $400 ; value of work done,
$1,800 ; cap., $1,800 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware  Manufactories, 2 ; value  of stock  u.sed, $425 ; value  of tin
ware m'd, $575 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs  of  all kinds m'd,  460;  Shoes, pairs of  all kinds  m'd, 625 ;
gross  value  of  stock  used,  $2,875; value  of  boots  and  shoes m'd,
$5,425 ; cap., $6,700; m. emp., 11; £ emp., 10.	·
BlockB  and  Pumps,  establishments  for  m. ot; 1; value  of  stock u.sed,
.$125; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $250; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories ot; 1; value of stock used, $400; cofflnll made, 51; value, $600; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.	•
Ice for market, establishments for preservation ot; 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 600 ; value, $800; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 1,
Bakeries, 1; value  of  stock  u.sed, $500; value  of  Bread  m'd, $800;
cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp., in, 87 ; tonnage,  1,886,\,  bbls. mackerel taken, 6,970}; value $68,587.75; quintals of codfish taken, 86,250 ;  value,  $188,250.80; value  of  Cod Liver  Oil sold,
$22,800 ; value of salt consumed, $14,000 ; cap., $82,000 ; hands emp., 849.
CoastwiBe or Can-ying Trade,  24; tonnage  1,788H ; value, $65,500 ;
amount received for freight, $56,184;  hands  emp.,  106.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 5 ; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $162,000 ; eap., $16,200; hands emp., 89.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market,  cords, 118 ; value,  $791,
Farms, 21 ; acres,  1,105f  ; value, including  Buildings,  $98,828; acres
oC land improved, 663 ; penons emp., 48,
Unimproved Land, acres, 989. Unimprovable Lend, acres, 564. Woodland,  acres,  554f  ;  value, $9,181.
Indian Corn, acres, 4f ; bush., 176 ; value, $264.
Rye, acres, 21; bush., 48 ; value, $64.
Barley, acres, 7 ; bush., 160 ; value, $240.
Potatoes, acres, 87}; bush., 1,907; val, $1,459.25.
Turnips cultivated as a fteld crop, acres, 121; bush., 2,260 ;value, $565. Onions, acree, 81; bush., 820 ; value, $560.
Cabbage, acres, 5f ; value, $778,
:Winter Squash, acres, 2}; value, $261.
Cranberries, acres, 2 ; bush., 141; value, $48.50.
180	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.

ROWLEY.	ESSEX  Co.

Engfish   Mowing,  acres,  489 ;  tons   of  English   hay,  607 ; value,
$21,245.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 14; tons of wet  meadow  or swale hay, 10 ; value,  $165.
Salt Marsh  mown,  acres, 41 ; tons salt hay, 7 ; value,  $49.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,817 ; value of apples, $608 ; Pear-tred cultivated for their fruit, 804 ; value of pears, $228.
Sheep, 28 ; groea  value  of  all sheep, $168.
Horses, 72; value, $8,100; Oxen over four years old, 121; Steers under four years old, 4 ; value of oxen and steers, $9,820 ; Milch Cows, 137 ; Heifers, 13; value of cows and  heifers,  $4,240 ; gallons of Milk sold, 2,625 ; value, $840 ;  lbs.  of  Butter  sold, 862;  value,  $162.90.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 122,000 ; value, $14,800. Pork, dressed, lbs., ',100; value, $770.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 17,000 ; value ; $2,000. Veal, lbs., 7,800 ; value, $1,825.
Swine, 72 ; value, $8,640.
Isinglass,  value  m'd,  $9,542 ;  value  of  stock  used,  $5,000 ; cap.,
$10,000 ; hands emp., 12.


ROWLEY.
Blacksmith Shops, 1 ; value of stock used, $500 ; value of work done,
$500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 6,000 ; value, $15,000 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 1,200 ; value, $16,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Boots,  pairs  of  all kinds  m'd,  5,650 ; Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,
26,810 ; gross value of stock used, $42,264 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $51,716; cap., $10,300 ; m. emp., 48 ; f. emp., 28.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, 7,804; value, $8,527 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp. six months, 15.
Saw Mills, 1; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  110,000 ; value,
$8,200 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 847 ; value, $3,982 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp. four months, 12.	·
Farms, 132 ; acres, 10,085 ; value, including Buildings, $416,012 ; acres
improved, 10,017 ; persons emp., 159. Unimproved Land, acres, 68.
Woodland, acres, 2,000f ; value, $64,434.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETT.S .

181

Essu Co.	RoWLET,
Indian Corn, acres, 171; bush., 4,668 ; value, $7,002.
Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 28 ; value, $70. Rye, acres, 50 ; bush., 448 ; value, $784. Barley, acres, 88 ; bush., 885 ; value, $586. Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 7; value, $14. Oats, acres, 7 ; bush., 105! ; value, $117.90.
Beans, acres, 18; bush., 2161; value, $649.50.
Potatoes, acres, 128; bush., 11,484 ; value, $7,618.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2 ; bush., 547 ; value, $278.50.
Onions, acres, 2 ; bush., 245 ; value, $367.50.	·
C'Mrots, acres, f ;bush.,  252; ·value,  $88.20.
Cabbage, acres, 8 ; value, $287.
Wm'
ter Squash, acres,	; value,  $121.
Market Gardening, acres, 7 ; value, $681.
Beet.a and other eeculent vegetables, acres, l; bush., (50 bush, beets, 6 bush.  parsnips,)  56 ; value, $81.
Cranberries, acres, 4 ; bush., 10 ; value, $85.
English   Mowing,   acres,  768 ;  toos  of    English   hay,   657 ;  value,
$19,710.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 265 ; toos of wet meadow or swale hay, 231; value, $8,465.	·
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 1,891 ; toos of salt hay, 1,891 ; value, $28,865. Apple-trees 'cultivated for their fruit, 11,568; value of apples, $6,018.50 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 756 ; value of pears, $870.50 ; all  other  trees  cultivated   for   their   fruit,  185 ; value of  fruit,  $38;
value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered  for market,   $889.
Sheep, 69; value, $887 ; lbe. of  Wool, 261; value, $144.85.
Horses, 152 ; value; $10,265 ; Oxen over four years old, 88 ; Steers under four years old, 12 ; value of oxen and steen, $7,589 ; Milch Cows, 878; Heifers, 94 ; value of cows and heifen, $12,750; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (10 Bulls and fat Cows,) $805 ; gallons of Milk eold, 7,278 ; value, $1,806.20; lbe. of Butter sold, 18,875 ; value, $5,550 ; lbs, of Cheese, 5,987 ; value, $1,187.40.
Beef; dreeeed, lbe., 166,445 ; value, $19,524.50. Pork, dreesed, lbe., 61,106 ; value, $10,999.08. Mutton,  dressed,  lbs.,  14,045  ; value, $2,512.
Veal, dreesed, lbs., 19,210; value, $2,481.
Swine, 224 ; 118lue, $2,445.25 ; value of Poultry sold, $547.06 ; value of Eggs eold, $1,841; lbe. of Honey, 416 ; value, $115.50; lbe. of Beeswax, 5 ; value, $2.50 ; value of unenumerated 1111.icles of fann produce, (26 hives Bees,) $218.50.
182	STATISTICS  Of  THE	[1865.
SALEJL	:g88EX  Co. ·

Oak and Pine Timber, 100,000 feet ; value, $800 ; hand emp. three months, 2.
Grist Mill, 1; bush. Grain ground, 9,600.
Heels, Soles., Stiffe' nings, &c., establillhments for m. of, 1; value, $5,000; value of stock used, $3,500 ; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 2.


SALEM.

Cotton Mills, 2; spindles, 67,712 ; lbs. cotton coD8UIDed, 1,827,8791; gross value of stock used, $1,640,628; yards of Cloth m'd, CODBiating of Jeans, Sheetings and Shirting, 4,450,892 ; gross value, $1,497,983; yards Cotton Flannelm'd, 988,851;value, $396,468; cap., $1,200,000;
m. emp., when in full operation, 400; at present, 275; £  emp., when in full operation, 700; at present, 520; tons of coal consumed 8,500; value, $2',500.
Hollow Ware and C&Btings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 8; value of stock used, $82,000; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 175;  value, $50,000 ; cap., $50,000;  hands emp., 25.
Machinery,  establi$hments   for  m.  of,  2 ;  gross  value  of  stock  used,
$16,882; value  of machinery  m'd,  $24,935 ; cap.,  $13,000; bands
emp., 18.
Boilers, establiehments for m. of, 1; value •of stock used, '$800 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Bross Foundries, 1; value of stock used, $1,600 ; value of work done repairing, $8,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Hoop Skirts, establillhments for m. of, 1; value of stock used $1,500 ; hoop skirts m'd, 1,600 ; value, $2,000; cap., $4,000 ; £ emp., 7.
Chemical  Preparations,  1; value  of  stock used, $68,780;  value of
chemical preparations  m'd,  $118,952;  cap.,  $100,000;  hands  emp. 25.
Printing  and  Newspaper  Eatablillhmenta,  7;  value  of  stock  used,
$12,150; newspapel'B and periodicals printed, (Register, Qazette, Observer, Essex County Mercury, EBSex Statesmen, ) 5 ; issued weekly and semi-weekly; gr<>8II value,  $18,000 ; cap., $9,800; value of all other printing done,  $9,700;  cap.,  $10,000;  m. emp., 86; emp., 8.
Bookbinderies, 2; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value fl bookbinding
done, $6,650 ; cap., $2,500;  m. emp., 5; £ emp., 3.
Daguerreian and Photographic Esbiblillhments, 6 ; value of stock used,
$9,800 ; daguerreotypes and  photographs  taken, 74,600 ; value,
$16,700 ; cap., $9,200; m. emp., 14; £ emp., 5.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	188
Essn:  Co.	SALEH,

Looking-gl888e8 and Picture Frames, manufactories of, 1; value  of stock used, $1,500; value of  articles  m'd,  $8,000 ;  cap.,  $8,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Saddles, Harneslles, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 7 ; harnesses m'd, 51; value, $1,740 ; trunks m'd, 200 ; value, $606 ; value of stock used, $6,400;  cap., $6,100;  hands emp., 20.
Upholstery Manufactories, 8; value of stock used, $5,000; value of upholstery m'd, $7,240 ; cap., $5,500; m. emp., 8; £ emp., 1.
Ship Yards, 2 ; value of materials used, $24,500 ; Vessels launched and on the stocks, 2 ; tonnage, 850 ; value, exclusive of spars, rigging and sails, $49,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; bands emp., 20.	·
Sail Lofts, 4 ; sails made of American fabric, 10 ; value of the fabric,
$1,000 ; value of sails, $1,250; sails made of foreign fabric, 20 ; value of the fabric, $2,000 ; value of sails, $2,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Railroad   Cars,  Coaches,  Wagons,   Sleighs,  and   other  vehicles,   4  ;
railroad cars m'd, 64 ; wagons, 100; carriages, 4 ; value, $88,600 ; value of stock used, $58,600 ; cap., $154,500; hands emp., 54.
Confectionery,  establishments  for  m. of,  5 ; value  of  stock  used,
$18,034;  lbe. confectionery made, 62,796 ; vallle, $21,965 ;  cap.,
$9,000; m. emp., 12;  £  emp., 12.
Port Monnaies, Pocket .Books, and Wallets, establishments for of, 1; doz. walleta m'd, 2,200 ; value, $18,000 ; value ofstock used, $11,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 30.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 10; value of stock used, $84,600 ; value of clothing m'd, $150,000 ;  cap.,  $77,800;  m.  emp,.  82 ; £ emp., 150.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of articles from, 5 ; value of stock used, $8,500 ; tons of Cemetery, Stone, and Mar­ ble work m'd, 785;  value,  $19,800;  cap., $6,900;  hands emp., 16.
Sperm and Tallow Qmdles, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock
used, $550 ; lbs. Tallow Qmdles made, 5,000 ; value, $700 ; cap.,
$1,opo ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, eatabliabments for m. of, 1; value  of stock  used, $800 ; bbls. of
90& eoap m'd, 800 ; value, $1,000 ; lbs. bard soap m'd, 84,266 ; value,
$7,600 ; cap., $8,200 ; bands emp., 4.
Keroeene or refined  Petroleum, establishments  fur  m. or, 1; bbJs. crude
petroleum	1,000;  value,   $16,500 ; tons  coal  used,  25 ; value,
$270; gallons of kerosene or refined. petroleum  m'd, 24,000 ; value,
$19,400; gallons of Naptba, 8,000 ; value, $8,500; bbls. Tar, 20 ; value,   $160 ;  gallons   Residuum,  5,600 ;  value,   $8,500 ; cap.,
$12,000 ; hands emp., 8.

Digitized byGoogle .
184	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
                                                                         Esau Co•
•
Master Builders, 89 ; Buildings erected, 19; value of Buildings and
other work  done, $98,850 ; value  of  materials  used,  $65,075 ; bands
emp., 96.
Blacksmith Shope, 18; value of stock used, $10,525; value of work done, $28,550; cap., $9,600 ; hands emp., 28.
Cabinet Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $25,200 ; valoe of Chain and Cabinet Ware m'd, $40,550 ; cap., $10,150; hands emp., 18.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 6 ; value of stock used, $10,572 ; value of
tin ware m'd, $15,937; cap., $16,600 ; bands emp., 16.
White Lead and other Paints, establishments for m.. o( 1; value  of stock used, $125,000 ; lbs. white lead m'd, 945,989; value, $163,815; lbs. of sheet lead m'd, 45,822 ; value, $8,061 ; cap., $70,000·; hands emp., 80.
Vmegar,  gallous  m'd,  28,218;  value, $9,008.
Glue Manufactories, and manufactories for the preparation of GUID8, 2 ; value of stock used, $5,500 ; value of glue and gums m'd, $88,000 ; cap., $14,000 ; hands emp., 19.
Grist  Mills, 2; bum.,  Com  ground,  104,750;  value, $157,125; cap.,
$12,000;  hands emp., 5.
Tanning  and  Currying Establishments, (tanning,  89 ; currying, «;)
88; value, of stock used, (tanning, $237,911; currying, $176,915 ;)
$414,826; hides tanned, 278,100 ; hides curried, 255,560 ; hides tanned and curried, 528,660; value of Leather tanned, $1,102,043 ; value of leather tanned and curried, $2,761,689 ; value of leather curried, $1,659,646; cap., (tanning, $407,811; currying, $567,567 ;)
$975,878 ; hands emp., (tanning, 182; currying, 856 ;) 588.
Patent and Enamelled Leather, establi8hments for m. o( 1; value of stock  used,  $4,000;  value  of  patent  and  enamelled  leather  m'd,
$20,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 2,625 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 85,098 ; gross value of stock used, $84,625 ; value of boots and shoes m'd,  $52,209 ; cap., $28,900 ; m. emp., 72 ; £ emp.,  42.       •
Snuff, Tobacco, and Cigars, m'd, $29,075 ; value of stock used, $19,100 ;
cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 25 ; £ emp., 5.
Blocks and  Pumps, establishments  for m. o( 1; value  of stock used,
$400; value of blocks  and pumps m'd, $800;  cap.,  $200 ; bands
emp., 2.	•
Establi8hments  for  m. of  Casks,.(mostly kegs,)  6;  value of  stocl used,
$17,800 ; casks m'd, 62,400 ; value, $84,700 ; cap., $24,000 ; bands emp., 41.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	185
E88EX  Co.	SA.LEX.

Cofllns and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,650; cofllns made, 590; value, $6,070 ; cap., $4,100; banda emp., 7,
Planing llil1a and establishments for m. of Sashes, ·Doors, and Blinds, 4 ; value of stock used, $80,000 ; value of sashes, doors and blinds m'd, $1,500 ; value of all other work done,' $55,500 ; cap., $87,500 ; hands emp., 82.	·
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2; value of atoek used, $1,800 ; value of wooden boxes made, $450 ; value of paper boxes made, $2,250 ; cap., $400; m. emp., 2; £ emp., 4; paper boxes m'd, 85,000 ; wooden boxes, m'd, 2,700.
Gas, eswh1iabrnent8 for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $19,845 ; value of gas m'd, $42,827 ; cap., $150,000;  hands emp., 6.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 8; tons of ice pre­ served, 6,000 ; value, $8,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., average 40. Bekeriea,   18 ; value  of stock  used,  $75,700;   value  of   Bread   m'd,
$114,900 ; cap., $22,050 ; bands emp., 40.
Whale Fishery, veaaela employed in, 1; tonnage, 160; gallons of Sperm Oil imported, 4,000 ; value, $8,000 ; cap.,$16,000 ; hands emp. 22. Shell  Fish,  Lobetera  taken,  100,000;  value,  $6,000 ;  cap., $2,000 ;
hands emp., 16.
Coutwiee and Carrying Trade, veaaela engaged in, 21 ; tonnage, 2,000 ; value, $55,300 ; amount received for &eight, $89,861 ; bands emp., 89.
Farms, 46; acres, 2,410 ; value, including Buildings, $422,985 ; acres improved, 900 ; peraons emp., 90.
Unimproved Land,	1,480. Unimprovable Land, acres, 80. Woodland,  acree,  18;   value, $1,050.
Indian Corn, acres, 15; bush., 700 ; value, $1,019.
Rye, acres, .(; bush., 150; value, $205. Barley, acres, 10; bush., 210; value, $220. Buck":heat, acres, 1; bush., 25 ; value, $82. Oats, acres, 1; bash., 26 ; value, $12.
Potatoes,  acres, 571;  bush.,  8,238;  value, $8,052.
Turnips cultivated ae a field crop, acres, 5l; bush., 2,550 ; value, $605.
Onions, acres, 22 ; bush., 6,150; value, $10,000. Carrots, acrea, 71; bush., 1,920 ; value, $574. Cabbege, acrea,   Of ; value, $1,675.  .
W-mter Squaah, acres, lf ; value, $595.
Garden Seeds, acrea, 4 ; value, $700.
H
186	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
SA.LEU.	EssEx  Co.

Market Gardening, acres, llf ; value of products, $8,940.
Beets  and other  eseulent  vegetables,  acres, 21;  bmh.,  680 ;  value,
$211.
English Mowing, acres, 721 ; tons of English bay, 989 ; value, $26,600. Salt Marsh  mown, acres, 112 ; tons of  salt hay,  118 ; value,  $1,188.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4:,469 ; value of apples, $2,269 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4:,588 ; value of pears, $1,560; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 4.
Saxony Sheep, of difle' rent grade1, 4 ; Merino sheep, of difl'erent grades, 110 ; gross value, $2,500 ; lbe. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 15 ; value, $7.50 ; lbe. of  Merino wool, 1,100 ; value,  $550.
Horses, 68 ; value, $9,915 ; Oxen over four years old, 24 ; Steers under
four years old, 2 ; value of oxen and steers, $2,860 ; Milch Cowe, 197 ; Heifers, 5 ; value of cows and heifere, $8,895 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (9 Bulls and Calves,) $420 ; gallons of Milk eold, 4:8,212; value, $12,14:0 ; lbs. Butter eold, 100 ; value, $85.
Beef, dressed, lbe., 10,048; value, $1,800. Pork, dressed, lbs., 8,975 ; value, $566.50. Veal, dressed, lbs., 560 ; value, $88.
Swine, 88 ; value, $1,860 ; value of Poultry eold, $4:8 ; value of Eggs sold, $400 ; value of unenumerated  articles of Farm Produce, $1,180.
Bonnet Bleacheries, 1; value of work done, $2,500 ; value of stock used, $1,000 ; cap., $1,200 ; m. emp., 3 ; f. emp., 2.
Dental Eetablisbments, 6 ; sets Teeth m'd, 875 ; value, $8,000 ; value of stock used, $3,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; m. emp., 7.
Dye Houees,  1 ; value, $5,000 ; value of stock used,  $1;500 ;   cap.,
$8,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; f. emp., 6.	•
Essences and Extracts, establishments for m. of, 1;  value  m'd, $15,000 ; value of  stock U8Cd,  $9,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Games, &c., establishments  for m. of, 2 ; articles m'd, 50,000 ; value,
$47,600 ; value of stock U8Cd, $82,600 ; cap., $28,600 ; m. emp., 10 ;
£ emp., 50.
Hair-work,  &e.,  establishments  for  m.  of,  2;  pieces  m'd,  100; value,
$950 ; value of 1;1tock used, $800 ; cap., $275 ; f. emp., 8.
Jute Factory, 1; yards jute bagging, &c., m'd, 600,000 ; value, $60,000 ; value of stock U8Cd $80,000 ; cap., $60,000 ; m. emp., 80; f. emp.,50. Knapsacks, establishments fur m. of, 1; knapsacks m!d, 5,000 ; value,
$20,000; value of stock U8Cd, $10,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 11;
£ emp., 4:.	'
Ladies' Cloab and Outside Garments, establishments for m. of, 8; number m'd, 1,500 ; value, $18,000 ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; cap., $5,500 ; £ emp., 19.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	187
Essu:  Co.	SALISBURY,

Line and Twine Factory, 1; value m'd, $4,000 ; value of stock used,
$2,500 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 1.
Morocco  Dressing  Establishments,   1; doz.  skins  tanned  and  curried,
312,000 ; value, $15,600 ; value of stock used, $7,400 ; cap.,$10,000;
m. emp., 8.	·
Painted  Carpeting, establishments for . m. of, 1; yards  m'd, 600 ;   value,
$600; value of stock	$400;  cap., $200 ; m. emp., 2.
Artificial Legs,  establishments  for m.  of,  1; legs  m'd,  125 ; value,
$10,000 ; value of stock used, $3,170 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Type-setting  and  Justifying  llachines,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1;
value  of  work  done,  $10,000 ; value  of stock  used,  $1,200 ; cap.,
$90,000 ; m. emp., 15.
Shoe Stitching and Binding Establishments, 6; pairs of shoes stitched and bound, 472,000; value of work done, $46,200 ; value of stock med, $12,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; m. emp., 4:; £ emp., 215.
Stair Builders, 1; flights of stairs built, 12; value, $900 ; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 8.
Stitfenings, lnner-eoles, &e., establishmenta for m. of, 9 ; pairs m'd, 700,000 ; value, $14,825 ; value of stock used, $8,750; cap.,$5,000 ; m. emp., 20 ; £ emp., 25,
Turning  and  Sawing  Establishments, 1; value of work done, $2,000 ;
value of stock used, $400 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 8.


SALISBURY.
Cotton Mills, 1; spes, 2,000 ; lbe. of cotton consumed, 80,000 ; gross value of stock used, $82,000 ; lbe. of Yarn m'd  and  not made into clothi 72,000 ; gross value, $86,440 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 1O.
Woollen  Milla, 4 ;sets of machinery,  88; lbs. of  Scoured Wool  con-
80Dled, 887,000 ; groee value of all stock used, $1,257,500 ; yards of Broadcloth m'd, 500000 ; value, $750,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 475,000 ; value,   $598,750;  Shawls   m'd,   52 ; value,   $805 ;  cap.,
$500,000; m. emp., 868 ; £ emp., 294:.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $800 ;
newspapers  print.eel,  (Villager,)  1; issued  weekly ; gross  value,
$12,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; value of all other printing done, $2,000 ; m. emp., 5.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$250 ; daguem,otypes and photographs taken, 4,000 ; value, $1,000 ;
cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2.
188	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
SALISBURY.	EssEx  Co.

Saddles, Harnesses, and  Trunks,  establishmenu for m. of, 1; number of each m'd, 10 saddles, 50 harn88888, 50 trunks ; value, $2,850 ; value of stock used, $1,600 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Hat  Manufactories,   1; value  of  stock  used,  $58,659.15; hats  m'd,
144,54-0 ; value, $84,654.98; cap., $19,125 ; m. emp., 82 ; f. emp.,
•
Ship Yards, 2 ; value of materials used, $25,000 ; Vessels launched, 4 ; tonnage, 450 ; value, exclusive of spars, rigging, and sails, $50,000 ; cap., $5,000; hands emp., 10.	1·
Boats, establishments for m. of, 10; value of materials used, $17,796;  boats built, 1,858 ; value, $86,062 ; cap., $10,700 ; hands emp., 47. Vehicles of alJ kinds m'd, (11 Chaises, 14: Carryalls, 160 Wagons, 114
Buggies, all others 112,) 851; value, $41,920 ; value  of stock used,
$20,4-00 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 81.
Coffee Mills, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; lbs. of  coffee  m'd,  4,000 ;
value, $2,000 ; cap., $500; hands emp., 1,
Sperm and TalJow Candles, establishments for m. of, 1; value of 11tock used, $8,000 ; lbs. of tallow candles made, 25,000 ; value, $4,500 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Soap, estabJishments for m. of, 1; value of stock  used, $2,ooo·;  bbls. of  soft soap m'd, 200 ; value, $1,000; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 20,000 ; value,  $2,400;   cap., $1,000  ;  hands  emp., 2.
Master Builders, 5 ; Buildings erected, 16 ; value, $82,000 ; value of materials used, $15,000 ; hands emp., 80.
Blacksmith Shops, 6 ; value of stock used, $5,875 ; value of work done,
$8,900 ; cap., $4,600 ; hands emp., 14.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $2,200; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Glue Manufactories, 1 ; value of stock  used, $250 ; value  of glue m'd,
$500;  hands emp., 1.	"'
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,500 ; Hides   tanned,   2,100 ; hides   tanned   and  curried,  2,100;	ue of leather tanned and curried, $10,800 ; cap., $7,000; hands emp., 11. Patent and Enamelled Leather, establishments for m. of, 1; value  of stock   used,  $8,00;  value   of   patent   and   enameµed   leather m'd,
$5,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of al) kinds m'd, 1,000; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,000 ;
gross  value  of  stock  used,  $8,500;  value  of  boots  and  shoes m'd,
$6,500 ; cap., $2,000; m. emp., 9.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 1,000,000 ; value, $9,000 ; cap., $5,00 ;
hands emp.,  15.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS .	189
EssEX Co.	SALISBURY.

Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $800; value of Monuments, Gravestones, &c., m'd, $1,600; cap., $600;  hands emp 2.
Coffins and Burial C88e8 of all kinds, 1; value of stock used, $450 ; coffins made, 181 ; value, $1,580 ; cap., $400; hands emp.,  2.
PJaning Mills and establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors an<i Blinds, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,600 ; value of sashes, doors and blinds m'd, $600 ; l"alue of all other work done, $8,800; cap., $5,500 ; hands emp., 16.
Boxes, establisltments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of wooden boxes made, $3,000; value of paper boxes, $3,399 ; cap.,
$2,500; m. emp., 4.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 5 ; tonnage, 202 ; bbls. of mackerel taken, 440 ; value, $5,000; qtls. of codfish taken, 800 ; value, $3,000 ; value of cod liver oil sold, $200 ; value of salt con­ sumed, $1,000  ; cap., $12,000;  hands emp., 20.
Shell Fish, bush. taken, 960 ; value, $384 ; hands emp., 8.
Alewives, Shad, Salmon, and Bass taken, 6,000 ; value, $2,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Coaatwisc  or  Carrying  Trade,  vessels  engaged  in, 8 ; tonnage,  210 ;
value,  $8,500; amount  received  for freight, $2,150; hands  emp., 9.
Saw Mills, 1; feet of Lumber prepared fur market, 50,000 ; value,
$7,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark, cords prepared for  market,  1,965 ; value,  $8,850;
hands emp., 10.
Farms, 148; acres, 7,480; value of same, including Buildings, $290,100 ; acres of land improved, 7,240 ; persona emp., 202.
Unimproved Land, acres, 150. Unimprovable Land, acres, 97. Woodland,  acres,  1,204;  value, $60,200.
Indian Corn, acres, 216; bush., 5,686 ; value, $8,454.
Wheat, acres, 6 ; bush., 85 ; value, $170.
Rye, acres, 22 ; bush., 822 ; value, $.	•
Barley, acres, 52 ; bush., 645; value, $967.
Oats, acres, 64; bush., 978 ; value, $900.
Potatoes, acres, 851; bush., 16,817 ; value, $18,058.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8 ; bush., 800 ; value, $100.
Oniona, acres, 5 ; bush., 1,417 ; value, $2,500. Carrots, acres, 6 ; bush., 1,200 ; value, $200. Cabbage, acres, 4 ; value, $850.
W-mter Squash, acres, 4 ; value, $800.
190	STATISTICS OF THE·	[1865.
SAUGUS,	EssEx  Co.

Market Gardening, acres, 4 ; vale of products, $400. Cranberries, acres, 11; bush., 100 ; value, $500.
English Mowing, acres, 814 ; tons of English hay, 942 ; value, $18,840.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 67 ; tons of  wet meadow or   awale
hay, 69 ; value, $690.
Salt Mh mown, acres, 1,608 ; tons salt hay, 1,897 ; value, $18,970. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 12,884 ; value of apples, $8,484;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,718; value of pears, $1,100; all other trees cultivated for their fruit,  105;  value  of  fruit,  $100 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for mhket,   $180.
Sheep, 206 ; value, $824 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 618 ; value, $500.
Horses, 144; value, $1,440 ; Oxen over four years old, 198;  Steers  under four years old, 118; value of oxen and steers, $15,550 ; Milch Cows, 867 ; Heifers, 57 ; value of cows and heifers, $12,720 ; gallons of Milk sold, 22,114; value, $4,422.80 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 12,014 ; value, $4,805.60;  lbs. of  Cheese, 800 ; value, $80.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 287,750 ; value, $48,162.60. Pork, dressed, lbs., 111,117; value, $22,223.40. Mutton, dressed, lbs. 24,920 ; value, $5,000.
Veal,	d, lbs., 88,275 ; value, $5,741.25.
Swine, 239 ; value, $5,000 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,604 ; value of Eggs sold $1,645 ; lbs. of Honey, 200 ; value, $80 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 5 ; value, $2.50 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce,
$3,000.
Cloth m'd in the family, (Broadcloth,) 12 yards ; value, $50. Distilled  Watcrs and  Mints, value,  $80.
Grape Vines, 400 ; value of fruit, $400. Strawberries, acres, 1; value of fruit, $200.


SAUGUS.
Woollen Mills, 8; sets woollen machinery, 14; lbs. Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 465,941; gross value of stock used, $515,000 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 1,305,214 ; value, $560,000 ; cap., $225,000 ; m. emp., 81 ; £ emp., 60.
Coffee Mills, 1; value of stock used, $150,000 ; lbs. of coffee m'd, 250,000 ; value, $200,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp.,  15.
Shoes,  paiffl  of   all  kinds  m'd,   75,108;    gross  value  of   stock   used,
$56,057 ; value of shoes m'd, $87,177 ; cap., $11,400 ; m. emp., 80 ; f.
emp., 52.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	191
ESSEX  Co.	SOUTH DANVERS.

Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 500,000 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Snuff, Tobacco, and Cigare m'd, $75,000 ; value of stock used, $50,000 ;
cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 40 ; f..emp., 60.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for  market, cords, 1,500 ; value, $9,000.
Farms, 20 ; acres, 920 ; value, including buildings, $104,770. Woodland, acres, 8,1861; value, $140,976.
Indian Coro, acres, 75 ; bush., 8,750; value, $3,750. Rye, acres, 4:7 ; bush., 940 ; value, $94:0.
Potatoes, acres,1115 ; bush., 8,050 ; value, $6,037.
Beeta and other esculent  vegetables,  acres,  20 ;  value, $8,000. English Mowing, acres, 510 ; tons of English hay, 600; value, $19,800.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 75 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 75; value,  $1,850.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 500 ; tons of salt hay, 500 ; value, $1,250. Apple-trees cultivated  for  their  fruit, 1,200 ; value  of  apples, $1,000 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 300 ; value of  pears,  $500.
Horses,  157 ; value, $19,625;  Oxen over  four years old, 18 ; value,
$1,800 ; Milch Cows, 218 ; value, $12,780 ; gallons of Mille sold, 106,500 ; value, Sl9,170.


SOUTH DANVERS.

Cotton Goods, establishmenta for bleaching or coloring of, and not con­ nected with calico or mousseline de Jaine establishmenta, 1; yards of goods bleached or colored, 6,625,000 ; value before bleaching or col­ oring, $1,656,250 ; value after, $1,722,500 ; cap., $100,000 ; m. emp., 41 ; £ emp., 18.
Woollen Milla, 1; seta of machinery, 4: ; lbe. of Scoured Wool consumed,
12',800 ; gross value of stock used, $115,805 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 10,662 ; value, $15,993; lbs. of Woollen Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 8,000; value, $8,000; yards of Doeskin Cloth m'd, 13,685 ; value, $18,474: ; cap., $22,227; m. emp., 42 ; £ emp., 28.
Mechanics'   Tools  m'd  and  not   elsewhere   enumerated,  gross   value,
$1,000 ; value of stock used, $225; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2. Printing and Newspaper F.etablishments, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ;
Newspapers   and  Periodicala   printed,   (South Danvers W"izard and
Danven   :Monitor,)   2 ; issued  weekly ;  gross  value,  $2,000 ; cap.,
$1,500 ; boob printed, 4:,000 ; value of printing  done  on  the same,
$400 ; value  of all other Printing done,  $1,4:00 ; m. emp., 5; £
emp., 1.
192	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
SOUTH DANVERS.	Esau  Co.

Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; valae of stock  used,
$700; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 4,400 ; value, $1,760; cap., $550 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Saddles and Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; nwn­ ber of  each  m'd, 6; value, $200 ; valae  of  stock  used,  $100; cap.,
$200 ; hands emp., 1.
Hat and Cap Manufactories, 1; value of  stock med,  $1,500 ;  hats and caps m'd, 2,000 ; value, $2,250; cap., $600; m. emp.,  1;  f. emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and  other  vehicles,
establishments for m. of, 8 ; nwnber m'd, 59 ; valae, $6,480 ; value of stock used, $4,100 ; cap.,$5,800 ; hands emp., 10.
Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $3,978 ;
lbs. of confectionery made, 18,245 ; value, $5,960; cap., $2,400 ; m. emp., 6 ; f.emp., 8.	·
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of, 1; valae of stock
used, $820 ; lbe. of  tallow candles made, 4,000 ; value, $575.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $17,179 ; bbls.of soft soap m'd, 420 ; value, $1,765 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 147,195; value, $17,726;  cap., $7,800 ; hands emp., 7.
Master Bailders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 8; value, $21,500 ; value of materials used, $16,400 ; hands emp., 20.
Blacksmith Shops, 5; value of stock used, $5,244 ; value of work done,
$11,722 ;	p., $9,100; hands emp., 17.
Tin Ware Manufaetories, 1; value of stock med, $1,500 ; vue of tin ware m'd, $3,000;  cap., $8,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Glue Manufactories, and manufaetories for the preparation of Gums, 4 ; value of stock used, $46,000 ; value of glue and gwna m'd, $87,000 ; cap., $88,000 ; hands emp., 88.
Tanning Establishments, 26; valae of stock u¥d, $180,260 ; hides tanned, 167,656; value of leather tanned, $1,018,929 ; cap.,$456,500 ; hands emp., 147.
Currying Establishments, 24; value of stock used, $148,281; hides curried,  159,966 ; valae of  leather curried, $1,422,648;  cap.,   $172,­
.  400 ; hands emp., 240.
Boots, pairs of all kinda m'd, 225 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinda m'd, 812,- 258 ; gross value of stock used, $820,474 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $400,544 ; cap., $80,700; m. emp., 261; f. emp., 205.
Blocks  and Pumps, establishments  for m. of, 1; value of stock  used,
$150 ; value  of blocks  and pumps  m'd,  $650 ; cap.,  $500; hands
emp., 1.	'
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	198
EssEx  Co.	SoUTB DANVERS.

Last and Shoe-peg Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ;  lasts m'd, 40,000 ; value, $8,500 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Stone and Earthen Ware, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of stone  and  earthen  ware  m'd,  $8,500 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $12,498 ; cap.,·$5,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved, 500 ; value, $800 ; cap., $,'>00 ; hands emp., 1.
Bakeries,  2 ;  value  of  stock  used,   $29,000 ;  value  of  Bread  m'd
$45,059 ; cap., $10,500 ; hands emp., 15.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of building stone quarried and prepared for market, $8,800 ; value of Millstones quarried and pre­ pared for market, $1,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp,,   3.
.Saw Mills,  1; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  200,000 ; value,
$8,820 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp.; 2.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 4,000 ; value, $81,000; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 148 ; acres, 7,175 ; value, including Buildings, $688,450 ; acres
of land improved, 2,777 ; persons emp., 284. Unimproved Land, acres, 4,398.
Unimprovale Land, acres, 980.
Woodland, acres, 2,028 ; value, $62,275.
Indian Com, acres, 127; bush., 4,370 ; value, $7,705. Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 80; value, $60.
Rye, acres, 18 ; bush., 848 ; value, $642. Barley, acres, 29 ; bush., 471 ; value, $684. Oats, acres, 7 ; bush., 200 ; value, $170.
Potatoes, acres, 168; bush., 21,7M ; value,  $21,118.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 11; bush., 2,385 ; value, $624. Onions, acres, 67 ; bush., 16,420 ; value, $24,937.
Carrots, acres, 24 ; bush., 15,860 ; value, $4,614. Cabbage, acres, 84 ; value, $2,870.
Winter Squash, acres, 11 ; value, $2,923. Garden Seeds, acres, 4; value, $2,296.
Market Gardening, acres, 30 ; value, $3,051.
Beets and other  esculent  vegetables,  acres, 6 ;  bu11h., 2,870; value,
$1,340 ; value of Garden Seeds prepared for market, $2,000. Cranberries, acres, 3 ; bush., 25 ; value, $100.
English !lowing,   acres,   1,426 ;   tons   of  English  hay, ·1,556 ; value,
$4i,«5.
194	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.

SwAMPSCOTT,	EssEx   Co.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 350; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 320;  value, $4,951.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 2 ; tons of salt hay, 2 ; value, $35.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 9,842 ; value, $5,870 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,560 ; value of pears,  $623 ; all  other  trees cultivated for their fruit, 75 ; value of the fruit, $65 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $725.
Sheep, 115 ; value, $920 ; lbs. of Wool, 700 ; value, $610.
Horses, 447 ; value, $39,913; Asses and Mules, 2 ; value, $300; Oxen over four years old, 70 ; Steers under fouryears old, 7 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,950 ; Milch Cows, 475 ; Heifers, 86; value of cows and heifers, $21,937 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (3 Bulls,) $\20 ; gallons of Milk sold,  115,406;  value,  $23,824 ; lbs. of   Butter  sold,  3,142 ; value, $1,220.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 2,47 ,100 ; value, $348,200. Pork, dressed, lbs., 43,400 ; value, $6,922.
Mutt.on, dressed, lbs., 410,300 ; value, $59,045. Veal, dressed, lbs., 110,200 ; value, $16,530.
Swine, 265 ; value, $4,500 ; value of Poultry sold, $906 ; value of Eggs sold, $690 ; lbs. of Honey, 65 ; value, $21 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, (principally Sage and other herbs,) $5,090. Napping Flannel, establishment for, (in connection with the Bleachery,) l ; yards napped, 1,287,600 ; value before napping,  $371,280 ; value
after napping,  $420,784.
Cork Soles, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of soles made, $4,500 ; m. emp., l ; f. emp., 1.
Sheep Skin Mats, manufact.ories of, l ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of mats, $2,250 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Morocco Lining and Binding Skins, manufact.ories of, lO ; value of stock used, $41,550 ; skins tanned, 329,100 ; skins finished, 497,975 ; value of skins tanned and finished, $587,157 ; cap., $183,000 ; hands emp., 155.
Soles, Heels, and Stiffenings for Shoes, manufact.ories of, 2 ; value of stock used,  $12,200;  value  m'd,  $20,880 ; m. emp., 8; f. emp.,  20.


SWAMPSCOTT.

Boats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of materials used, $1,000 ; boats built, 100 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 1.
Master Builders, 8; Buildings erected, 16 ; value, $39,500 ; value of materials used, $16,400 ; hands emp., 19.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	195
Essu:  Co.	SwAMPSCOTr,

Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value of work  done,
$500 ; cap., $50 ; bands emp., 1.
Tin Ware Manufaetories, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; value of tin ware m'd, $500 ; cap., $350 ; hands emp., 1.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 31; tonnage, 1,309H ; bbls. of mackerel taken, 3,875 ; value, $42,325 ; qtls. codfish taken, 7,127 ; value, $42,233; value of cod liver oil sold, $5,255 ; value of salt consumed, $3,720 ; cap., $104,720 ; hands emp., 199.
Farms, 29 ; acres, 1,329 ; value, including Buildings, $209,760 ; acrt>.A
of land improved, 500 ; persons emp., 69.
Unimproved Land, acres, 604. Unimprovable Land, acres, 50. Woodland, acres, 86 ; value, $20,700.
Indian Corn, acres, 1; bush., 75 ; value, $131. Wheat, acres, 7 ; bush., 208 ; value, $245• .
Barley, acres,!; bush., 10 ; value,  $10.
Oats, acres, 1; bush , 20; value, $25.
Potatoes, acres, 351; bush., 5,760 ; value, $7,200.
Turnips, cultivated as a field crop, l ; bush., 80 ; value, $400.
Onions, acres, 17; bush., 5,095 ; value, $12,390.
Carrots, acres, 2t ; bush., 950 ; value, $380.
CabbRge, acres, 8f ; value, $499.
Winter Squash, acres, 5 ; value, $560.
Market Gardening, acres, 8 ; value of products, $170.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, t ; bush., 80 ; value, $50.
English !\lowing, acres, 218 ; tous of English bay, 8101; value, $9,845.
Wet Meadow or Swale .»<>wn, acres, 4 ; tons of wet meadow or  swale  hay,  2 ;  value,  $80.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,687 ; value of apples, $888 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 883 ; value of pears, $664.
Horses,  98 ; ·value,  $11,255 ; Oxen over four yeah  old,  16 ;  value,
$1,750 ; Milch Cows, 69 ; value, $412 ; gallons of  Milk sold, 3,000 ;
value, $1,680 ; lbe. of  Butter sold, M ; value,   $20.
Swine, 39 ; value, $1,705; value of Poultry sold, $100; value of Eggs sold, $200 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $800. Value of  articles m'd in the family for sale, and not  before    enumerated,
$1,250.
Carpenters' Jobbing Work, value, $58,000 ; value of material, $36,000;
number of Jobbing Carpenters, 8 ; hands emp., 19.
Lobsters Trapped, 87,000 ; value, $1,850 ; cap.,$1,500 ; hands emp., 9.
196	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
TOPSFIELD.	Esau: Co.

Fish caught arid sold fresh, vessels emp. in, 31 schooners, 50 dorys ; tonnage, 1,808H ; value of fish, spawns, and livers, $200,156; cap.,
$105,720 ;  m. emp., 249.
Basket Manufactories, 2 ; value, $1,200 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 1.


TOPSFIELD.

Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $600; value of work  done,
$1,305 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 21,
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 6,350 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 65,980 ; gross value of stoek used, $67,250 ; value of boota and shoes m'd, $101,200 ; cap., $14,600·; m. emp., 84 ; f. emp., 44.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords,  279 ;  value, $1,100.
Farms, 104 ; acres, 6,473; value, including Buildings, $262,588; acres of land improved, 1,559 ; persons emp., 124.
Unimproved Land, acres, 3,061. Unimprovable Land, acres, 316. Woodland, acres, 647 ; value, $21,514.
Indian Com, acres, 173; bush., 8,588 ; value, $5,882. Rye,·acres, 28;  bush., 345 ; value, $517.50.
Barley, acres, 22 ; bush., 321 ; value, $481. Oats, acres, 27 ; bush., 824 ; value, $194.40.
Potatoes, acres, 103; bush., 8,840 ; value, $6,903.
Turnips, acres cultivated as a field crop, 2 ; bush., 800 ; value, $187. Onions, acres, lf; bush., 350 ; value, $425.
Winter Squash, acres, i ; value, $127.
Tobacco, acres, 2 ; lbs., 8,000 ; value, $900. Cranberries, acres, 8; bush., 40 ; value, $120.
English Mowing, acres, 1,0571; tons English  hay, 952!; vnlue,  $26,262.
Wet Meadow or	wale mown, acres, 987 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 878; value, $9,228.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 183 ; tons of salt hay, 167 ; value, $2,004. Apple-trees cultivated for  their  fruit,  7,3i8; value  of apples, $6,533;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 322 ; value of pears, $227 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 707 ; value of fruit, $291 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $6.
Sheep,  120 ; value,   $1,200 ; lbs.  of  Wool  produced,  $487 ;  value,
$282.40.	·
Horses, 159 ; value, $14,265 ; Oxen over lour years old, 138; Steers under four years old, 25 ; value of oxen	d  steers, $13,185; Milch
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	197
Essu: Co.	WENHil(.
Cows, 847; Heifers, 51; value of cows and heifers, $21,580 ; gallons
Milk  sold,  5,084 ; value,  $1,271;  lbs. Butter  sold,  10,345 ; value,
$4,899 ; lbs. of Cheese, 800 ; value, $60.
Beef, dressed, lbs. 8,580 ; value, $1,029. Pork, dressed, lbs., 49,880 ; value, $9,990. Veal, dressed, lbs. 6,410 ; value, $882.
Swine, 158 ; value, $2,274 ; value of Poultry  sold,  $1,899 ; value of
Eggs  sold,  $895 ; value  of  unenumerated  articles  of  farm produce,
$107.
Dry Cows, 5; value, $125 ; Bulls, 4 ; value, $100 ; Calves raising, 8 ;
value, $120.
Axes m'd in blacksmith shops, doz., 6; value, $144 ; value of axes repaired, $175 ; value of  Leather Cutters or Dies repaired, $500.


WENHAM.

Railroad  Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons,  Sleighs,  and  other  vehicles,
2 ; vehicles m'd, 12 ; value, $800 ; value of stock. used, $400 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 4 ; Buildings erected, 6 ; value, $5,000 ; value of the materials used, $8,832 ; hands emp., 4.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,00Q ; value of work done,
$300 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Ice for mArket, establislµnents  for preservation  of, 1; tons preserved,
15,000 ; value, $7,500 ; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Saw  Mills,  1; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for market, 200,000 ; value,
$2,400 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands- emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 200 ; value,   $800.
Farms, 68 ; acres, 2,183; value,  including  Buildings,  $196,955 ; acres
improved,  3,131; persons emp., 120.
Unimproved Land, acres, 100. Unimprovable Land, acres, 50. Woodland, acres, 1,050 ; value, $25,000.
Indian Com, acres, 50 ; bush., 1,750 ; value, $1,750.
Rye, acres, 12 ; bush., 240 ; value, $250.
Oats, acres, 5 ; bush., 150; value, $140.
Potatoes, acres, 100 ; bush., 12,500 ; value, $6,250.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 10 ; bush., 1,000 ; value, $200.
Onions, acres, 2 ; bnsh., 80 ; value, $800.
Carrots, acres, 8 ; bnsh., 1,000; value, $490.
198	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
WEST NEWBURY.	Essa  Co.

Cabbage, acres, 5 ; value, $800. Winter Squash, acres, 3 ; value, $300. Cranberries, acres, 10 ; crop a failure.
English Mowing, acres, 500 ;  tons of  English hay, 450 ; value,  $9,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 500 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 400 ; value, $3,200.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,852 ; value of apples, $500 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 500 ; value of pears, $250 ; value of  Nuts  or Berries cultivated  or gathered  for market,  $150.
Merino Sheep, 1 ; all other kinds of sheep, 29 ; gross value of  all sheep,
$150 ; lbs. of Merino Wool,  7 ; value,  $7 ; lbs. of  Wool produced,
145 ; value, $145.
Horses,  128 ; value,  $6,40!) ; Oxen  over  four  years  old,  52 ;   value,
$3,900 ; Milch Cows, 28 ; Heifers, 20 ; value of cows and heifers,
$6,918; gallons of Milk sold, 30,000 ; value, $4,800; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,000;  value, $1,250 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 640 ; value, $77.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 52,500 ; value, $7,3/iO. Pork, dressed, lbs., 30,000; value, $5,400. Mutton, dressed, lbs;, 6,000 ; value, $780. Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,800 ; value,  $1,274.
Swine, 180 ; value, $4,875 ; value ·of Poultry sold, $200 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,000 ; lbs. of Honey, 600 ; value, $180.


WEST  NEWBURY.

Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $27li ; value of work done,
$1,200;  cap., $275 ; hands emp., 3.  .
Comb Manufactories, 3 ; value of stock used, $32,000 ; doz. of combs m'd, 160,000 ; value, $84,000 ; cap., $35,000; m. emp., 84 ; f. emp., 14.
Shoes,  pairs  of   all  kinds  m'd,  187,220 ;  gross  value  of  stock used,
$186,000 ; value  of  shoes  m'd,  $208,850 ; cap.,  $20,200 ; m.  emp.,
180 ; f. emp., 74.
Boxes, establishments for m. o 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of Paper boxes made, $4,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 4.
Firewood and  Bark  prepared  for  market, cords, 50 ; value,   $350.
Farms, 128 ; acres, 6,611 ; value, including Buildings, $449,270 ; acres of land improved, 6,380 ; persons emp., 191.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 500.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 250.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETI'S.	199
EsSEx Co.	WEST  NEWBURY,

Woodland, acres, 231; value, $7,730.
Indian  Corn, acres, 242 ; bush.,  9,695 ; value,  $14,540.
Wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 76 ; value, $152.
Rye, acres, 17 ; bush., 195 ; value, $841. Barley, acres, 88\ ; bush., 1,592 ; value, $2,368. Oats, acres, 43 ; bush., 905 ; value, $900.
Herdsgrass Seed, acres, l; bush., 5 ; value, $30.
Potatoes, acres, 109i ; bush., 12,206 ; value, $9,764.
Turnips, acres cultivated as a field crop, 3 ; bush., 975 ; value, $487.
Onions, acres, Si; bush., 2,075 ; value, $3,112.
Cabbage, acres, 2-h ; value, $425.
Garden  Seeds, acres, ,,h ;  value,  $150.
Market Gardening, acres, 2f ; value of produ,.ts, $425.
Garden  Seeds prepared  for market, value, $150.
Cranberries, acres, 6 ; bush., 3; value, $10.
English   Mowing,  acres,   1,465 ;  tons  of   English  hay,   1,595; value,
$47,850.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 543 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 5811; value, $7,965.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 28,850 ; value of apples, $9,082 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 693; value of  pears,  $405 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $400.
Sheep, 321; value, $1,605 ; lbe. of Wool produced, 1,269; value, $755. Horses, 218; value, $14,895 ; Oxen over four years old, 146 ; Steers under four years old, 46; value of oxen and steers, $14,905 ; Milch Cows, 629 ; Heifers, 80; value of cows and heifers, $29,905 ; value
of  Neat   Stock  not  embraced   above,   {15  Bulls,)   $375;  gallons  of
llilk sold, 25,275;  value. $4,802 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 19,310 ; value,
$8,589 ; lbe. of Cheese, 4,750; value, $950.
Beef, dreseed, lbe., 89,150 ; value, $5,198. Pork, dreseed, lbe., 66,780 ; value, $12,688. Mutton, dreseed, lbe. 1,500 ; value, $200.
Veal, dreseed, lbs., 29,400 ; value, $4,0J 9.
Swine, 264 ; value, $3,000 ; value of Poultry eold, $1,172 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,275; lbe.  of  Hooey,  443 ; value, $167.
200	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
AsuFIELD,	FRANK.LIN Co.



F R A N K L I N	C O U N T Y .


ASHFIELD.

Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for  m.  of,  1;  arti­ cles m'd, 26 ; value, $700; value of stock used, $850; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Clothing,  establishments  for m.  of,  1 ;  value  of  stock  used,  $150 ;
value of clothing m'd, $800 ; cap., $300; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1. Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 2 ; value, $3,000 ; value of mate­
rials used, $1,500 ; hands emp., 3.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done.
$1,700 ; cap., including value of shops, $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 1; bushels of Grain gronnd, 7,870 ; value, $8,000 ; bbls. Flour m'd, 175 ; value, $1,750 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 1. Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1 ; value of stock used, $800;
value of leather tanned and curried, $800 ; hands emp. for a portion of the time, 1.
l3oots, pairs of  all kinds m'd, 300;  Shoes, pairs of  all  kinds  m'd,  800 ;
gross  value  of  stock  used,  $1,100 ;  value  of  boots  and  shoes  m'd,
$2,250 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 4.
Wooden Ware of all sorts, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of ware m'd, $8,140 ; cap., $8,600 ; hailds emp., 10.
Coffins and Burial Caaes of all kinds, manufactories  of,  1; value  of stock used, $60 ; coffins made, 50 ; value, $250 ; hands emp. for a small portion or" the year, 2.
Sw  Mills,  5 ;  feet  of   lumber  prepared   for  market,  485,000 ; value,
$5,990; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 200,000 ; value, $570 ; value of all other Lumber, (Skate wood and Basket Rims, $2,000;  cap., $6,900 ; hands emp., 12.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 1,002 ; value,  $2,883;
hands emp., 6.
Farms, 225 ; acres, 23,209 ; value, including Buildings, $408,000 ; acres improved, 1,811; persons emp., 280.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 21,898.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 4,996.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	201
FRANKLIN  Co.	A.8BF1ELD.

Woodland, acres, 2,844 ; value, $73,944.
Indian Com, acres, 162 ; bush., 5,670; value, $6,568.
Wheat, acres, 161; bush., 281; value, $577.
Rye, acres, 2J ; bush., 40 ; value, $48. Barley, acres, 22l ; bush., 675 ; value, $710. Oats, acres, 49 ; bush., 1,715 ; value, $1,063.
Potatoes, acres, 85 ; bush., 9,775; value, $3,258.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field crop, acres, 2; bush., 800; value, $160.
Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 1,800 ; value, $488.
Tobacco, acres, 21f ; lbs., 82,625 ; value, $5,220.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,819 ; tons  of   English hay, 2,092 ;   value,
$25,104.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,519 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay,  1,291;  value, $10,828.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,081 ; value of apples, $2,078 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit,·183; value of pears, $265; all other trees cultivated for their  fruit, 285;  value of fruit, $25.
Merino  Sheep, of  different grades, 4,815 ; all other kinds of sheep,  8!4;
gross value of all sheep, $28,215; lbs. of Merino Wool, 17,455; value,
$11,345 ; lbs. of  all other wool pl'Q(luced,  1,247 ; value, $810.
Horses, 245 ; value, $24,230; Oxen over four years old, 122; Steers  under four years old, 148; value of oxen and steers, $17,554 ; Milch Cows, 472 ; Heifers, 88; value of  cows  and  heifers,  $18,595; value of Neat  Stock not embraced   above,   (Farrow   Cows  and Yearlings,)
$7,520 ; lbs.  of  Butter sold,  2-1,188;  value, $8,046;  lbs.  of  Cheese,
1,800 ; value, $800.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 47,445 ; value, $3,557. Pork, dressed, lbs., 68,816; value, $8,600. Mutton, tlressed, lbs., 2,llO ; value, $147. Veal,  dressed,  lbs.,  2,520;   value, $176.
Swine, 104 ; value, $1,560 ; value of Poultry sold, $260 ; value of Eggs sold, $456 ; lbs. of Hone], 400 ; value, $100 ;. value of unenume­ rated articles of farm produoo, (175 bbls. Cider,) $435.
Cloth m'd  in the family, (Flannel,) yards, 75;  value, $100;  value of  all
other articles m'd in the family, Palm Leaf Hats braided by families for merchants, $6,000; labor on Suspenders, for the Easthampton Woollen Compaoy, $2,000 ; Walking Canes, $200.
i6
202	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
BERNARDSTON• .	FRANKLIN   Co.


BERNARDSTON.
Hoes, establishments for m. or, 1; value of stock used, $3,000 ; doz. hoes m'd, 800 ; value, $6,400 ; cap., $.'i,800 ; hands emp., 8.
Harnesses, establishments for m. of, 1 ; harnesses m'd, 12 ; value, $288 ; value of stock used, $200; cap., $400 ; hands emp.,  1.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $750 ; value of work done,
$1,500 ; cap., $1,450 ; hands emp., 8.
Distilleries, 1; value of stock used, $603 ; gallons of Cider Brandy distilled, 658 ; value, $2,612 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw  Mills,  4 ; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for market, 641,000 ; value,
$12,820 ; Shingles prepared for market, 100,000 ; value, $300 ; Railroad Ties, 1,600 ; value, $560 ; cap., $7,700 ; hands   emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 842 ; value, $8,889 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands  emp., 4.
Farms, 121 ; acres, 13,864 ; value, including Buildings, $874,274 ; acre,
of land improved, 8,176 ; persons emp., 154.· Unimproved Land, acre.s, 2,617.
Unimprovable Land, aeres, 297. Woodland, acres, 2,274 ; value, $a7,814.
Indian Corn, acres, 218; bush., 6,647 ; value, $8,305. Wheat, seres, 81; bush., 49 ; value, $98.
Rye, acres, 86 ; bush., 879 ; value, $1,089.
Barley, acres, 10 ; bush., 177 ; value, $177. Buckwheat, acres, 22; bush., 113; value, $118. Oats, acres, 105 ; J?wh., 2,713 ; value, $2,025. Potatoes, acres, 81 ; bush., 7,584 ; value, $8,792.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 4 ; bush., 997 ; value, $249.
Hops, acres, 41; lbs. of  hops, 1,323;  value, $338•
· Tobacco, acres, 45 ; lbs., 5(,060 ; value, $7,720.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,451;  tons  of  English  bay,  1,501; value,
$22,463.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 69 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay;  62 ; value, $887.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,027 ; value of apples, $1,615 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $130.
Sheep, 1,078; value, $4,166 ; lbs.Wool produced, 3,601 ; value, $2,415. Horses, 136 ; value, $18,587 ; Oxen over four years old, 100 ; Steen under four years old, 142 ; value of oxen and 1:1teers, $15,207 ; Milch Cows, 305 ; Heifers, 84, ; value of cows and heifers, $14,888 ; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (83 Bulls and Yearlings,) $972; lbs. BuUer sold, 12,966 ; value, $4,277.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	208
FB.illtLilf  Co.	BUCKLAND.

Bee( dressed, lbs., 87,640 ; value, $3,466. Pork, dressed, lbs., 56,481 ; value, $9,208.
Swine, 101 ; value, $1,500 ; value of Poultry sold, $748 ; value of Eggs sold, $198; lb& Honey, 197; value, $66 ; value of unenumen,Jed articles of farm produce, $300.
Value of all other arµcles m'd in the family fur Bale and not before enumerated,  $165.
Grist Mills,  1; bush.,  Grain ground, 10,000 ; value, $10,000;  cap.,
$2,000 ; hande emp., 1,


BUCKLAND.

Augers, Bits, and  Gimlets,  manufactories  of,  1; value  of  stock   ueed,
$20,896 ; articles m'd, 208,965; value, $68,225.78; hands emp., 30. Cutlery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $180,000; pieces m'd, table  goods, 1,9«,000, butcher  goods, 252,000, pocket
goods, 72,000; value, $471,732 ; cap., $240,000 ; bands emp., 349.
Kaster Builders,  1; Buildings erected, 2 ; value, $1,500 ; value of
materials used, $1,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shope, 2 ; value of stock ueed, $500 ; value of work done,
$4,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp.,4.
Feed Mills, 8; bush. Grain ground, 8,000 ; value, $10,000.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock utled, $4,500 ; Hides tanned, J ,800 ; value of Ltlather tanned and CUJTied, $8,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Boote, pairs of all kinds  m'd,  600 ;  Shoes,  pairs  of  all kinds  m'd,  120 ; groee value of stock  used,  $1,200 ; value of  boots  and eboea m'd, $2,550;  cap.,  $1,000 ; m. emp.,   4.
Wooden  Ware of  all aorta, establishments  for m.  of,  1; value  of  stock
used, $700 ; value of ware m'd, $3,650 ; cap., $2,000 ; hande emp., 5.
Boxes, establliihments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $2,000 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 3 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 700,000 ; value,
$10,500; cap., $6,000 ; bands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market,corde, 1,873 ; value,  $10,758.
Farms, 119 ; acres, 11,383 ; value, including Buildings, $'32,688 ; acres
improved, 8,288;  pel'80ne emp., 159.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,800. Uuimprovable Lend, acres, 1,250. Woodland, acres, 1,150; value, $34,500.
204	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
0uARLElllONT.	FRA.NKLJN  Co.

Indian Corn, acres, 131 ; bush., 6,157 ; value, $7,696.
Wheat, acres, 4!; bush., 87\ ; value, $175.
Rye, acres, 6 ; bush., 120 ; value, $150. Barley, acres, 4 ; bush., 92 ; value, S115. Buckwheat,  2 ; bush., 30 ; value, $15. Oats, acres, 41; bush., 1,120; value, $840.
Potatoes, acres, 71; bush., 8,875 ; value, $8,550.
Tobacco, acres, 7 ; lbs., 10,800 ; value, $1,620.
English	owing,  acres,  1,702 ; tons  of  English  hay,  1,732 ; value,
$25,980.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 127 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  100 ; value, $1,000.	•
Apple-trees  cultivated  for their  fruit, 3,585 ; value of apples, $4,587.20 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for  their  fruit,  102 ; value of pears, $150.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 1,752; value, $7,008; lbs. of Merino Wool, 6,280 ; value, $5,658.80.
Horses, 180 ; value, $13,500 ; Oxen over four years old, 90 ; Steers under four years old, 40 ; value of oxen and steers, $9,760 ; Milch Cows, 328; value, $12,920 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (109,) $2,180 ; gallons of Milk sold, 2,737 ; value, $766.86 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 19,885 ; value, $6,562.08 ; lbs. of Cheese, 4,850; value, $651.50.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 192,300 ; value, $19,230. Pork, dressed, lbs., 46,220 ; value, $6,988. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 9,975 ; value, $1,197. Veal, dressed, lbs., 10,150 ; value, $812.
Swine, 97 ; value, $1,455 ; value of Poultry sold, $70 ; value of Eggs
sold, $600 ; lbs. of  Honey, 200 ; value, $60.	.
Cloth m'd in the family, (wool cloth,) yards, 185 ; value, $202.50 ; linen cloth, yards, 20 ; value, $20.


CHARLEMONT.

Ploughs and other agricultural implements, establishments for m. of, 1; value  of stock  used,  $4,000 ;  Scythe  Snaths  m'd,  1,000 ;  value,
$6,000 ; cap., 88,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; number m'd, 4 wagons, value, $500 ; value of stock used, $150 ; cap., $200 ; bands emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value  of stock used,  $500 ; value of work done,
$1,600 ; cap., $800 ; bands emp., 3.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	205
FRA!fllDJ  Co.	CsARLBIIOlfT.

Friction   Matches,  establishments   for  m.  of,  1; vll.lue  of  stock  used,
$2,000 ·; gross of Matches m'd, 2,500 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $1,000 ;
m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 8.
Distilleries, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; bbls. Alcohol  distilled, 13;
value, $1,835 ; cap., $850 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills,  7 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 120,000 ; value,
$1,200 ; cap., $2,150; hands emp., 9.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 462 ; value,    $1,848,
Farll)l{, 136; acres, 15,640; value, including Buildings, $257,900;  acres of  land improved, 8,765;  persons emp., 292.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,568.	'
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 2,1°28.
Woodland, acres, 2,184 ; value,  $17,472.
Indian Corn, acres, 1611; bush., 5,652 ; value, $8,478.
Wheat., acres, 9 ; bush., 112 ; value, $280. Rye, acres, 89}; bush., 581 ; value, $1,062. Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 60 ; value, $90.
Buckwheat, acres, 81; bush., 161 ; value, $161.
Oats, acres, 69 ; bush., 1,906 ; value, $1,906.
Herdsgrass  Seed, bush.,  11; value,  $66.
Potatoes,  acres, 78; bush., 19,888;  value, $5,951.40. Turnips cultivated as a field crop, bush., 1,888; value, $472. Onions, bush., 81; value, $62. ·
Carrots, bush., 48 ; value, $24.
Tobacco, acres, 55 ; lbs., 72,850; Taine, $12,141.66.
English Mowing, acres, 2,011 ; tons English hay, 2,010 ; value, 586,180. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,402; value of apples, $9,121.60. Sheep, 2,78; value, $18,790 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 9,653;  value,
$8,687.70.
Horses, 152 ; value, $18,295 ; Oxen over four years old,  79 ; Steers under four years old, 133 ; value of oxen and steers, $12,550 ; Milch Cows, 308 ; Heifers, 247 ; value of cows  and  heifers, $16,885 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (Colts and Bulls,) $3,295 ; gallons of Milk sold, 630 ; value, $126 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 13,080 ; value, $5,232 ; lbs. of Cheese, 4,215 ; value, $843.
B dressed, lbs., 89,200 ; value, $7,186. Pork, dressed, lbs., 38,350 ; value, $5,752.50. Veal, dressed, lbs., 730 ; value, $73.
Swine, 78; value, $1,122 ; value of Poultry sold,  $318 ; value  of Eggs sold, $324 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, (lbs. Maple Sugar, 9,680,)  $1,613.33.
Palm Leaf  Hats m'd, value, $1,500.
206
STATISTICS  OF THE
[1865.
CoLRAIN••

FRI..N  LIN  Co.


COLRAIN.

Cotton Mills, 2 ; spindles, 10,128 ; lbs. of cotton consumed, 225,000 ; gross value of stock used, $134,000 ; yards  of  cotton  Cloth  m'd, (light  Printing  Goods,)  2,400,000 ;   gross  value,   $197,000 ; cap.,
$90,000 ; m. emp., 50 ; f. emp., 100.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 2 ; vehicles m'd, 15 sleighs, 20, wagons ; value, $2,600 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 8.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock nsed, $3,000 ; ·  value of  clothing  m'd,  $4,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock nsed, $1,200 ; value of work done,
$3,500; cap., $1,200 ; bands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories, .1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of  tin ware m'd, $600 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 8 ; bush. Grain ground, 8,000 ; value, $10,000 ; cap.,
$2,000 ; bands emp., 3.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 200 ;  Shoes, pairs  of  all kinds  m'd,  800 ; gross value of stock used, $1,100 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 2.
Saw Mills,  9 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  500,000 ; value,
$5,000 ; Shingles prepared for market, 100,000 ; value, $250 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; hands emp. three months, 9.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,061 ; value, $4,664.
Farms, 196 ; acres, 24,281; value, including Buildings, $875,775; a of land improved, 15,559 ; persons emp., 256.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,622. Unimprovable Land, acres, 5,697. Woodland, acres, 2,768 ; value, $65,325.
Indian Com, acres, 305 ; bush., 11,915; value, $17,872.50. Wheat, acres, Ui ; bush., 256; value, $579.
Rye, acres, 2It ; bush., 270 ; value, $405.
Barley, acres, 27! ; bush., 618 ; value, $549. Buckwheat, acres, 1l; bush., 32 ; value, $25.
Oats, acres, 148t ; bush., 4,794 ; value, $3,595.50. Potatoes, acres, 126!; bush., 16,284 ; value, $6,498.60. Tobacco, acres, 24 ; lbs., 37,500 ; value, $7,030.
English Mowing, acres, 8,728; tons English hay, 8,760; value, $45,120.
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale mown,  acres, 474 ; tons of wet meadow  or &wale
hay, 327 ; value, $2,616.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	207
F1u.NKLIN  Co.	CONWAY.

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 14,851; value of apples, $7,947 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 158 ; value of pears, $64 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, (peach trees,) 160 ; value of fruit,
$196 ; value of Nuts or. Berries cultivated or gathered for market,
$106.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 3,430 ; all other kinds of sheep, 202 ;
gross value of  all sheep, $14,811; Merino  Wool, lbs., 14,080 ;  value,
$9,400 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 882 ; value, $499.
Horses, '281; value, $21,950 ; Asses and Mules, 2 ; value, $200 ; Oxen over four years old, 208 ; Steers under four years old, 398 ; value of oxen and steers, $26,735 ; Milch Cows, 515 ; Heifers, 295 ; value of cows and heifers, $23,914 ; fat Cows, 28; value, $1,200 ; Bulls, 6 ; value, $188 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 22,513 ; value, $8,365; lbs. Cheese, 10,186 ; value, $1,852.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 93,468 ; value, $9,850.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 68,060 ; value, $9,459. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,065 ; value, $165.20. Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,010 ; value, $81.
Swine, 185 ; value, $1,620 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,712 ; value of Eggs sold, $666 ; lbs. of Honey, 942 ; value, $819 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 10 ; value, $6 ; Cider, bbls., 1,118 ; value, $2,795 ; Maple Sugar,  lbs., 89,670 ; value, $9,550.50 ; Maple Mol88l!es, gallons, 806 ; value,
$306 ; Beans, bush., 100 ; value, $250 ; value of Dried Apples sold,
$155 ; value of  Live  Geese Feathers, S115.
Cloth m'd in the family, (Flannel,) yards, 650 ; value, $650.


CONWAY.

Cotton Mills, 2 ; spindles, 2,444 ; lbs. cotton consumed, 125,470 ; gross value of stock used, $142,426.68 ; lbs. Yam m'd and not made into cloth, 100,376; gross value, $197,716.58; cap., $33,070.80; m. emp., 18 ; £ emp.,  19.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 5 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 140,000 ; gross value of stock used, $300,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 175,000 ; value, $850,000; cap., $25,000; m. emp., 58; £ emp; 30.	.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $4,000; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 10.
BJacksmith  Shops,  2 ; value  of stock  used,  $1,500 ; value  of work
done, $2,500 ; cap., $950 ; bands emp., 4.
208	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.

CONWAY.	FRANKLIN   Co.

Flouring Mills, 1; bush. Grain ground, 15,000 ; value, $22,000 ; bbls. Flour m'd, 150 ; value, $1,650;  cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 1 ·
Tanning   and   Currying   Establishment.s,    1;   value   of   stock   used,
$49,947.12; Hides tanned and curried, 5,495; value of Leather tanned and curried, $52,861.08; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 17.
Boot.s, pairs of all kinds m'd, 150; pairs of Shoes of all kinds m'd, 150; gross  value  of   stock  used,  $550 ; value  of  boot.s  and  shoes   m'd,.
$1,200 ; cap., $300;  m•. emp., l J.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 100,000; value, $800 ; cap., $500°; hands emp., 3, three months each.
Saw Mills, 1; feet of  Lumber prepared for market, 10,000 ;  value,
$150 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 40,000 ; value, $100 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, (wood, 1,364 ; bark, 14 ;)   1,378;  value, $5,455.
Farms, 154 ; acres, 18,836; value,including Buildings, $382,924 ; acrei of land improved, 12,260; persons emp., 245!.	·
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,274. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,488. Woodland, acres, 1,814;  value, $55,785.
Indian Com, acres, 182; bush., 6,978; value, $10,211. Wheat, acres, 8; bush., 122 ; value, $252.
Rye, acres, 4 ; bush., 50 ; $76.50.
Barley, acres, 3; bush., 82; value, $125.	. Buckwheat, acres, 8f ; bush., 52!; value, $75. Oat.s, acres, 61 ; bush., 1,938 ; value, $1,938. Potatoes, acres, 83; bush., 10,095 ; value, $4,996.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2; bush., 600 ; value, $180. Carrot.s, acres, 1 ; bush., 500; value, $150.
Tobacco, acres, 80 ; lbs., 153,928; value, $28,937.50.
English Mowing, acres, 2,748! ; tons of English hay, 3,116 ; value,
$48,455.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,,35; value of apples, $4,512 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 63 ; value of pears, $37 ; all. other trees cultivated for their fruit, 12; value of fruit, $7.
Sheep, 2,447 ; value,  $10,204;  lbs. of  Wool, 11,774;  value, $9,921.
Horses; 248 ; value, $14,755 ; Oxen over four years old, 17. 4.; Steers under four years old, 22 ; value of oxen and steers, $17,302 ; Milch Cows, 450 ; Heifers, 10; value of cows and heifers, $17,851; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (585 farrow cows, and 123 yearling steers and heifers,) $14,051; gallons of Milk BOid, 1,025;
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	209
FRA.NKLDf   Co.	DEEJUl'IBLD.

value, $206 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 88,541 ; value, $10,918; lbe. of Cheese, 4,895 ; value, $802.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 142,607 ; value, $17,957.96.
Pork, dressed, lbe., 66,190 ; value, $9,997.75. Mutton, dressed, lbe., 8,441 ; value, $284.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 8,670 ; value, $294.20.
Swine, 128; value, $2,406; value of  Poultry  sold, $802.50 ; value of Eggs sold, $565 ; lbs. pf Honey,  658;  value,  $158;  lbe. of Beeswax, 4 ; va1ue, $3 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, (Maple Sugar, 24,245 lbs.,) $8,998.20.
Cloth m'd in the family, (Frocking,) yards, 95 ; value, $95.


DEERFIELD.
Cutlery, establishments for m. of, 9 ; value of stock used, $218,089 ; value m'd, $411,181.61; cap., $175,000 ; bands emp., 400.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, l ; harnesses m'd, 50 ; value, $1,500; value of stock used, $800 ;. cap., $500 ; bands emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, number m'd, 27 W8or,ODB, 18 sleighs ; value, $8,657 ; value of stock nsed,  $1,500;  cap., $2,500 ; hands  emp., 7.
Cart Wheels m'd, pairs, 8; value, $60 ; value of stock used, $88.  Porte Monnaies, Pocket Books, and Wallets, establishments for m. of,
4; pocket books and wallets m'd, doz., 199,482 ; value, $145,968 ; value of stock nsed, $21,627 ; cap., $14,700 ; m. emp., 87 ; £ emp., 104.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of clothing mid, $2,000; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1;£ emp., 4. Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $75; value of work done,
$500 ; cap., $100 ; bands emp., 1.
Flouring  Mills,  2 ; bush. of Grain ground, 20,000 ; value, $15,000;
cap., $1,000;  hands emp., 2.	·
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $1,500; Hides tanned, 800 ; hides tanned and curried, 300 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $1,800 ; cap., $1,200 ; bands emp., 2.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value  of stock used,
$50 ; value  of  blocks  and  pumps m'd,  $150;  cap.,  $250 ; hands
emp., 1.
27
210	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
DEERFIELD.	FRANKLIN  Co.

Planing Mills and Establishments for m. of  Sashes,  Doors  and    Blinds,
2 ; value of work done, $200 ; cap., S150 ; hands emp., 2.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 6; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $1,100 ; value of paper boxes made, $1,750 ; cap., $1,800; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 10.
Saw Mills, 3 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market, 275,000 ; value,
$17,250 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 1,802 ; V)llue, $2,500 ; cap., $500 ;
hands emp., 6.
Com and other Brooms m'd, 2,500 ; value, $575; value of· stock con­ sumed, $700; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
Farms, 251; acres, 17,392 ; value, including Buildings, $963,650; acres of land improved, 12,5951;  persons emp., 406.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,125. Unimprovable Land, acres, 238 . Woodland, acres, 2,3l>8f ; value, $73,102.
Indian Com, acres, 723 ; bush., 26,904; value, $26,904.
Broom Corn; acres, 121 ; lbs. of  broom  Brush,  8,450 ; value,  $1,210 ;
bush. of broom Seed, 714 ; value, $441. Wheat, acres, 1261; bush., 2,228; value, $2,785. Rye, acres, 401!; bush., 4,880 ; value, $4,880. Buckwheat, acres, 18; bush ., 297 ; value, $297. Oats, acres, 8631; bush., 11,751; value, $7,345. Herdsgrass Seed, bush., 4!; value, $18.50.
Potatoes, acres, 1471; bush., 18,789 ; value, $7,595.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5 ; bush., 1,269 ; value, $253.
Onions, acres, l; bush., 24 ; value, $36.
Carrots, acres, l ; bush., 158; value, $79.
Cabbages, 200;  value, $18.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, bush., 20 ; value, $5. Hops, lbs., 300 ; value, $120.
Tobacco, acres, 484 ; lbs., 776,566 ; value, $85,422. Sorghum, acres, 2f ; gallons of Syrup, 884 ; value, $384. Cranberries, acres, 5 ; bush., 12 ; value,  $60.
English   Mowing,   acres, 3,391  ; tons  of  English bay,  4,399 ;  value,
$65,985.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 2581; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 258 ; value, $2,024.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,742 ; value of apples, $4,000 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 690 ; value of pears, $196; value of Peaches, (28 bush.,) $63 ; value of Strawberries cultivated or gathered for market, $124.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	211
FRn'XLIN  Co.	ERVING,

Sheep,  1,300; value, $5,000 ; lbs.  of Wool  produced,  3,196 ; value,
$2.,262.
Horses, 851; value, $26,825 ; Oxen over four yea.rs old, 228; Steen under four years old, 277 ; value of oxen and steers, $28,800 ; Milch Cows, 651; Heifers, 263; value of cows and heifers, $80,800; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (93 Dry Cows, 50 Calves and Colts,) $5,878 ; gallons of Milk sold, 4,274; value, $1,025 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 37,461 ; value, $11,288 ; lbs. of  Cheese, $1,400 ; value,
$200.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 80,000 ; value, $9,600. Pork, dressed, lbs., 125,831; value, $15,099.72. Mutton, dressed, lps., 844; value, $85.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,795; value, $175.
Swine, 209; value, $2,875 ; value of Poultry sold, $700 ; value of Egge sold, $1,101; lbs. of Honey, 620; value, $171 ; Quinces, bush., 4; value, $8; Grapes, lbs., 225; value, $56. ·	·


ERVING.

Detached parts of Piano Fortes, establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd,
$6,000 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; cap., $5,000.
Blacbmith Shops, 1 ; value of  stock used, $480;  value  of  work done,
$900 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.
Chair  Manufactoriee, 1; value  of  stock used, $10,000 ; chairs  and
settees m'd, 88,360; value, $13,800; cap.,$9,500 ; m. emp., 15. Palm Leaf Hats, value, $700 ; m. emp., 30.
Pail Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $9,000 ; JNUle m'd, 60,000;
value, $12,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Casks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; casks
m'd, 1,500 ; value, $1,925; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 4.
Planing  Mille and  Establishments  for m. of Doors, 1; value of stock
used, $7,000 ; value m'd, $10,000; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 5. Friction Match Woods, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$8,000 ; gross of matches m'd, 77,600 ; value, $11,136; cap., $8,000;
m. emp., 10 ; £ emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 7 ; feet of Lumr prepared for market, 1,495,000; value,
$254,150; Railroad Ties and Telegraph Poles, 2,825 ; cap., So,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market,  cords,  2,600 ; value, $7,800;
cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 21:
212	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
GILL,	FRA.NKLIN   Co.

Farms, 42 ; acres, 8,453; value, including Buildings, $145,3 ,o ; acres improved,  2,684 ; persons emp., 46•.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,686. Unimprovable Land, acres, 600. Woodland, acres, 2,983;  value,  $59,660.
Indian Corn, acres, 84 ; bush, 1,929 ; value, $1,929. Rye, acres, 42 ; bush., 809 ; value, $309.
Barley, acres, 1l ; bush., 35 ; value, $35.
Buckwheat, acres, Sf ; bush., 85 ; value, $68. Oats, acres, 25; bush., 429 ; value, $214.50.
Potatoes, acres, 31; bush., 2,457 ; value, $1,031.94. Tobacco, acres, 3; lbs., 5,000 ; value, $1,000.
English Mowing, acres, 474 ; tons of English hay, 893 ; value, $5,895.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 8 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 91; value,  $76.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,200 ; value of apples, $700. Sheep, 112 ; value, $448 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 402 ; value, $160.80. Horses, 60 ; value, $4,800 ; Oxen over four years old, 50 ; Steers under four years old, 34 ; value of oxen and steel'B, $5,500 ; Milch Cows, 108; Heifers, 25 ; value of  oows and heifers, $3,690 ; lbs. of  Butter
sold, 1,950 ; value, $448.50 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,450 ; value, $174. Beef, dressed, lbs., 1,200 ; value, $72.    ·
Pork, dressed, lbe., 2,400 ; value, $192.
Swine,  50 ; value,  $500 ; value  of Poultry sold, $50 ; value of Eggs
sold, $49.


GILL.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $350 ; value of work done,
$550 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 3.
Saw  Mills, 2;  feet of   Lumber  prepared   for  market,  100,000 ; vue,
$1,500 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 75,000 ; value, $225 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands  emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, oords, 500 ; value, $1,750.
Com and other Brooms m'd, 80:) ; Yalue, $120; value of stock oonsumed,
$85 ; cap., $75 ; bands emp., 1.
Farm, 105; acres, 8,410 ; value, including Buildings, $273,210 ; acres of land improved, 8,060 ; persons emp , 262.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 850.
INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	218
FRANKLIN  Co.	GBBDFIELD.

Unimprovable Land, acres, 170.
Woodland, acres, 1,144; value, $22,880.
lndiAn Corn, acres, 850 ; bUBb., 12,250 ; value, $12,250.
Broom Com, acres, 25 ; lbs. 17,500 ; value, $2,000 ; bUBh. of broom seed, 1,000 ; value,  $500.
Wheat, acres, 12 ; bUBh., 180 ; value, $860.
Rye, acres, 175 ; bUBh., 1,750; value, $1,970. Buckwheat, acres,  12 ; bush., 180;  value,  $90. Oat.a, acres, 140; bUBb., 4,200 ; value, $2,780. Potatoes, acres, 100; bUBb.,  7,000 ; value, $8,500.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 10 ; bUBb., 1,500 ; value, $375.
Onions, acres, 2 ; bUBh., 600 ; value, $600. Carrots, acres, 4 ; bush., 1,200 ; value; $600. Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $500.
Tobacco, acres, 100 ; lbs., 150,000;  value,  $27,000.
English Mowing, acres, 1,200 ; tons English hay, 1,800; value, $21,600.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 45 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay,
80 ; value, $800.
Apple-trees cultivated  for  their fruit, 6,000 ; value of apples, $8,500 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2GO ; value of pears, $350.
Sheep, 268 ; value, $1,815 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 600 ; value, $860.
Hones, 15f ; value, $15,100 ; Oxen over four years old, 94 ; Steen under four years old, 186 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,600; Milch Cows, 827 ; Heifers, 186; value of cows and heifers, $17,000; lbs. of Butter sold, 45,000 ; value, $11,250 ; lbs. of Cheese, 800 ; vale,
$160.
dreued, lbs., 12,000 ; value, $600.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 25,000 ; value, $2,000.
Veal, dressed, lbe., 8,000 ; value, $120.
Swine, 120 ; value, $1,200 ; value of Poultry, $800; lbs.  of Honey,  00 ; value, $66 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, (Melons,) $1,200.


GREENFIELD.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 5 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 100,000 ; gross value of stock used, $125,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 180,000 ; value of Satinet m'd, $155,000 ; cap., $30,000; m. emp., 40 ; £ emp., 40.
Pig Iron,  furnaces  for  m. of,  1; value  of stock  uaed,  $2,700 ; cap.,
$9,000.
214	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
GREENFIELD.	FRANKLIN Co.

Hollow Ware and Ca.stings m'd, lbs., 120,000 ; vale, $6,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Ploughs, and other Agricultural Implements, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,200 ; ploughs m'd, 600 ; value, $4,500 ; value of other agricultural implements m'd, $3,000 ; cap., $9,000 ; hands emp., 6.	·
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $4,500; newspapers and periodicals printed, (Gazette & Courier,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value, $12,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; value of all other printing done, $3,500 ; m. emp., 6 ; f. emp., 5.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of bookbinding done, $1,000 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used
$8(,0 ; ®ta,uerreotypes and photographs taken, 2,000 ; value, $1,500 ;
cap., $500 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 2.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 200 ; value, $8,000 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $13,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $18,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 14.
llarble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,106.03; value of marble cemetery work, $5,216.48; cap., $770.50;  hands emp., 8.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 150;  value, $900 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
llaster Builders, 6 ; Buildings erected, 8; value, $12,000 ; value of materials used, $8,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Blacksmith  Shops, 4;  value of  stock used, $1,700;  value of work done,
$8,450 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,250 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,600 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $10,000; Hides tanned, 2,000 ; hides tanned and curried, 2,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $20,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands c:np., 6.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 350,000; value, $4,000 ; cap., $3,600 ;
hands emp., 8.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufaetories of, 1; value of stock used, $525; coffins made, 175 ; value, $1,800; cap., $525; hands emp., 1.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	215
FRANKLIN  Co.	GREENFIELD.

Planing Mills. and Establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 1; value of stock ·used, $5,000 ; value of sashes, doors, and blinds m'd, $10,000;  cap.,$15,000;  hands emp., 7.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,100; value of gas m'd, $5,600;  cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation  of, 2 ; tons preserved,
1,000 ; value, $300 ; cap.,$200 ; hands emp., 2.
Bakeries, 1;.value of stock used, $15,000 ; value of Bread m'd, $20,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Saw Mills, S ;feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,   1,200,000 ; value,
$22,000; cap., $10,000; hands emp., 16.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 900 ; value, $4,500 ; cap.,
$1,000; hands emp., 5.
Farms, 115; acres, 10,192; value, including Buildings, $426,000 ; acres improved, 8,992 ; persons emp.; 147.
Unimproved Land, acres, 208. Unimprovable Land, acres, 150. Woodland, acres, 842 ; value, $42,100.
Indian Corn, acres, 84:2 ; bush., 10,944 ; value, $16,416. Wheat, acres, 17 ; bush., 204; value, $408.
Rye, acres, 142; bush., 1,562 ; value, $2,843. Oats, acres, 181; bush., 5,371; value, $4,800. Potatoes, acres, 82 ; bush., 7,180 ; value, $8,565.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 81; bush., 1,120; value, $280. Onions, acres,	; bush., 32 ; value, $80.
Carrots, acres, f ;bush., 210; value, $105.
Tobacco, acres, 88 ; lbs., 181,880; value, $20,782.
English  Mowing, acres, 1,788 ; tons of English hay,  2,300 ; value,
$79,000.
Appltrees cultivated for their fruit, 5,400; value of apples, $2,225 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,410.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 1,170 ; Merino Sheep, of different grades, 726; all other kinds of sheep, 444; gross valne  of all sheep,
$5,265; lbs.  of  Wool  produced  from  Saxony  sheep,  2,904; value,
$1,742.40;  lbs. of  Merino wool, 2,220;  value, $1,776.
Hones, 162 ; value, $20,250; Oxen over four years old, 180 ; Steers under four years old, 142 ; value of oxen and steers, $22,460 ; Milch Cows, 420 ; Heifers, 86; value of cows and heifers, $28,500 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (SO,) $600; gallons of Milk sold, 44,000; value, $2,600; lbs. of Butter sold, 28,000 ; value, $11,200.
Beef, dressed, lbs.,  "87,500;  value,  $52,500.
216	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
HAWLEY,	FRANKLIN    Co.

Pork, dre8sed, lbs., 56,200 ; value, $6,744. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 10,500 ; value,. $1,400. Veal, dre8sed, lbs., 5,200; value, $700.
Swine, 182 ; value, $1,820; value of Poultry sold, $560; value of Eggs sold, $158.
Carpenters' Tools and Rakes, establishments  for m. of, 8 ; value m'd,
$81,500 ; value of stock used, $15,800 ; cap., $17,000 ; m. emp., 85.



HAWLEY.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value of work done,
$400 ; hands emp., 1.
Palm Leaf Hats made, 6,440 ; value, $515.20.
Saw  Mills,  4 ;  feet  of  Lumber  prepared   for  market,   85,000 ; value,
$974; Shingles prepared for market, 250,000 ; value, $1,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 665 ; value, $2,202. Charcoal m'd, bu.sh., 4,950 ; value, $594.
Coal and Ore Beds, (not worked,) 1.
Farms, 122 ; acres, 17,888; value, including Buildings, $1U,018 ; acres of land improved, 6,845 ; persons emp., 144.
Unimproved Land, acres, 7,158. Unimprovable Land, acres, 4,880. Woodland, acres, 2,841; value, $22,728.
Indian Corn, acres, 95 ; bu.sh., 8,288; value, $6,566. Wheat, acres, 7l; bu.sh., 86 ; value, $215.
Rye, acres, 41; bush., 79 ; value, $158.
·Barley, acres, 20; bu.sh., 508 ; value, $74. Buckwheat, acres, 6 ; bu.sh., _118 ; value, $141. Oats, acres, 68 ; bush., 1,96-l ; value, $1,964. Potatoes, acres, 96; bush., 12,780; value; $8,182. Tumipe, bush., 181; value, $88.
Carrots, bu.sh., 227 ; value, $114.
Tobacco, acres, 41; lbs., 4,800 ; value, $720.
English Mowing,  acres,  1,217 ; tons of  English hay,  1,679 ; value,
$20,148.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 154 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 168;  value, $1,978.
1895.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	217
FliNKLIK  Co.	HEATH,

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,704 ; value of apples   sold, $827;
Pear-trees cultivated  for their fruit,  14:; value  of pears, $8 ; value
of  dried apples sold, $64.
Merino Sheep, of  diff"erent grades, 609 ; all other  kinds of  sheep, 816 ;
groee value of all sheep, $7,270 ; Iba. Merino  Wool,  2,517 ; value,
$1,510 ; lbe. of all other wool produced, 5,848; value, $3,505.
Horeee, 181 ; value, $9,291; Oxen over four years old,  86;  Steere under four years old, 28 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,980; Milch Cowe, 290; Heifers, 56; value of cows and  heifers, $9,596 ; value  of Neat  Stock oot embraced above, (187 two years old and yearlings,)
$1,952 ; gallone of  Milk  sold, 150 ; value, $24 ; lbe. of  Butter eold,
7,896; value, $2,682; lbs. of  Cheese, 800 ; value,  $188.
Beef, dreesed, lbe. sold, 28,128 ; value, $2,081.
Pork, dre88ed, lbe., 4,406 ; value, $704.96.
Vea1, dre8eed, lbe. sold, 688 ; value, $55.
Swine, 52 ; value, $898 ; value of Poultry sold, $68 ; value of Eggs
eold, $806.
Cloth, ya.rde m'd in the family, (Flannel,) 71 ; value, $87.75 ; lbe. Maple Sugar made, 24,965 ; value, $4,160.
Broom  Handles,  establiehments  for  m.  of,  8 ; number  m'd,  140,000;
value, $2,100 ; value of stock ueed, $1,080 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 8.


HEATH.
Ploughs, and other agricultural implements, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $50 ; Hand Rakes m'd, doz., 75 ; value, $400 ; cap., $500 ; bands emp., 1.
Blacksmith  Shope, 1•  value of  stock  used,  $50 ; value  of  work  done,
$800 ; cap., $100 ; bands· emp., 1.
Flouring Mille, l ; bueb. Grain ground, 8,000; value, $12,000 ; cap.,
$1,200 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mille,  5 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  85,000 ; value,
$640 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords,  400 ; value, $1,000;
cap., $800 ; hands emp.,  6.
Farms, 122 ; acres, 15,288 • value, including Buildings, $175,915; acres improved,  10,172 ; persons  emp., 280.
Unimproved LADd, acres, 5,066. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,210. Woodland,	' 2,786 • value, $27,860.
!8
218	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
LEVERETI'.	FRANKLIN    Co.

Indian  Corn, acres, 115; buah., 5,075;  value, $7,612.
Wheat, acres, 22!; buah., HI ; value, $858.
Barley, acres, 89 ; buah., 1,045; value, $1,567. Buckwheat, acres, l ; bush., 20 ; value, $25. Oats, acres, 49 ; bush., 1,525 ; value, $1,872.
Pot.a.toes, acres, 92 ; bUBh., 17,452; value, $6,975;
Carrots, acres, 1l ; buah., 925 ; value, $450• .
English   Mowing,  acres,   2,046; tons  of  English   hay,   1,740 ;  value,
$26,100.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 596; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 495 ; value, $8,465.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,458 ; value of apples, $1,915.
Sheep,  1,224 ; value,  $5,510 ; lbs. of Wool produced,  4,405 ;  value,
$8,524.
Horses, 126 ; value, $13,750 ; Oxen over four yea.rs old, 102; Steers under four years old, 192 ; value of oxen and steers, $25,650; Milch Cows, 828; Heifers, 171 ; value of cows and heifers, $17,845 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 25,520 ; value,  $9,620; lbs. of Cheese, 900 ; value,
$180.
Bee dressed, lbs., 29,664 ; value, $2,875. Pork, dressed, lbs., 11,550; value, $1,785. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 880 ; value, $88.
Swine, 74 ; value, $590 ; value of Poultry sold, $342 ; value of Eggs sold, $i02 ; lbs. of Honey, 10 ; value, $2.50 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 15 ; value, $6 ; Maple Sugar, lbs., 24,475 ; value, $8,671.25.
Cloth m'd in the family, (Domestic Flannel,) yards, 112 ; value, $168 ; Palm Leaf Hats, 8,050 ; value, $640 ; Straw wove for Shakers, value,  $155.   ·


LEVERETT.
Woollen Mille, 1; sets woollen machinery, 1; lbs. Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 4,000 ; gross value of stock U8ed, $4,800 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 1,200 ; value, $1,200 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 1,500; value, $800 ; lbs. woollen yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 400; value, $400 ; value of Wool Frocking m'd, $400 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 3 ; £ emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; Buggy Wagons m'd, 1; value, $85 ; value of stock used, $80 ; cap., $50.
1865.)	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	219
FBANKLIN   Co.	LEVERETT,

Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $100; wheels m'd, (52 wagon wheels, 200 children's carriage wheels, 4,000 toy wheels,) 4,252 ; value, $680 ; cap., $230 ; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 6 ; value of stock used, (including Scythe  Rings and Nib Irons for other parties, to the amount of $9,769,) $9,981; value of  work done, $12,861;  cap., $2,225 ; hands emp., 8.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $5 ; value of Chairs
and Cabinet  Ware  m'd, $50 ; cap., $100  ; hands  emp.,  1.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. of Grain ground, 10,000 ; value, $10,000 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 125 ; value, $625 ; cap., $1,30 ; hands emp., 2, Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $8,700 ;
Hides tanned, 300 ; hides tanned and curried, 800 ; value of  Leather
tanned and curried, $10,700 ; cap., $3,200 ; hands emp., 3. Palm  Leaf   Hats  made,  7,000;  value,  $550 ; £  emp., 10.
Blocks and Pumps,  establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of stock used,
$100 ; value  of  blocks  and  pumps  m'd,  $300 ; cap.,  $50 ;  hands
emp., 1.
Pail  and  Tub  Manufactories,  1; value  of stock  used,  $1,240 ; pails
m'd, 11,814 ; value, $2,500; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used,  $27 ; coffins made,  12 ; value, $75; cap., $15 ; hands
emp. occaaionally,  1.
Planing Mills and Establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 1; value of work done, $182 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., ].
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of wooden boxes made, $1,500 ; cap., $600 ; m. emp., 1.
Distilleries, 1; value of stock used, $240 ; bbls. of Liquors distilled, 5 ; value, $640 ; cap., $160 ; hands emp. occasionally, 1.
Saw Mills, 10 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for market,  650,000 ; value,
$8,670 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 52,100 ; value, $1,417 ; cap., $6,840 ; hands emp., 12.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 700 ; value, $1,997 ; cap., $1,440 ; hands emp., 8.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 7,000 ; value, $560 ; cap., $500 ; hands  emp., 2.
Farms, 121; acres, 18,087; value, including Buildings, $228,981; acres improved, 4,414 ; persons emp., 141.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 2,297.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 8,126. Woodland, acres, 8,2W ; value,  $47,560.
Indian Corn, acres, 188 ; bush., 3,368 ; value, $5,049.50.
220	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[186.'i.
LEVERETT,	FBA.NKLIN    Co.

Broom Corn, acres, 1l; lbs, broom Bn18h, 865; value,  $162 ; bush. of
Broom Seed, 85 ; value, $34.75. Wheat, acres, 8; bush., 53; value, $106. Rye, acres, 88 ; bush., 844 ; value, $5I 6.
Buckwheat,  acres, f ; bush.,  10 ;  value, $7.50.
Oats, acres, 90 ; bush., 1,186; value, $889.50. ·
Potatoes, acres, 100;  bush., 7,620 ; value, $2,514.60.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 41; bush., 854 ; value, $218.50.
Carrots, acres, l; bush., 75 ; value, $25.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, l ; bush., 56; value, $14. Tobacco, acres, 50; lbs., 68,940; value, $10,280.40.
Cranberries, acres, 8 ; bush., 16 ; value, $48.
• English Mowing, acres, 986 ; tons of English hay, 840 ; value, $15,120•
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 587 ; tons of .wet meadow or swale
hay, 876;  value, $8,884.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,640 ; value of apples, $2,744 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit, 29 ; value  of  pears,  $15;  all other trees cultivated  for their fruit,  23 ; value  of  fruit,  $28 ; value  of  Nuts or Berries cultivated  or gathered  for market,  $80.
Sheep, 4I 7 ; value, $1,526 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,480; value, $592. Horses, 167 ; value, $12,170 ; Oxen over four years old, 96; Steers under four years old, 129 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,510; Milch Cows, 264 ; Heifers, 130 ; value of cows and heifers, $11,548; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (6 Bulls,) $130 ; gallons of Milk sold, 170 ; value, $30 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,581; value, $2,274.80; lbs. of  Cheese, 5,500 ; value, $935.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 25,850 ; value, $2,154.75. Pork, dressed, lbs., 51,560 ; value, $8,249.60. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,459 ; value, $145,90. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,250 ; value, $225.
Swine, 102 ; value, $1,227 ; value of Poultry sold, $202; value of Eggs sold, $495 ; lbs. of Honey, 445; value, $75.65 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 18; value, $7.20 ; Maple Sugar, lbs., 7,875; value, $1,659.
Broom and Bn18h Handles m'd, 108,000 ; value, $590 ; value of stock used, $I 15; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 1.
Value of work done in Mechanic and Machine Shops, for repairing and building machinery, $400 ; articles m'd, 1'Water Wheel, value $200 ; 18 Hay Cutters, value, $72 ; Sap and other Tubs, 50; value of stock used, $50 ; Carriages repaired, $800; value of stock used, $40 ; 1,000
Ties, value, $80.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	221
FRANKLIN  Co.	LETDER.

LEYDEN.
Saw  Mills,  4 ; feet  of lumber  prepared  for  market,  150,000 ;  value,
$1,500 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 85,000; value, $105 ; value of all other lumber, (300 Skate Woods, 1,200 Children's Wagons, 800 Broom Handles,) $1,800; cap., $2,100 ;
hands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 200 ; value, $800. Charcoal m'd, bush., 2,000;  value, $200 ; cap., $60 ;	ds emp., 1. Com and other Brooms, m'd, 200 ; value $50; value of stock  consumed,
$30.
Farms, 94; acres, 9,828; value, including Buildings, $197,585 ; acres of land improved, 6,282 ; pel'80ns emp., 147.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 1,786.
Unimprovable Land, 891.
Woodland, acres, 1,469 ; value, $29,749.
Indian Co acres, 180; bush., 5,842 ; value, $5,842.
Wheat, acres, 15l; bush., 196 ; value, $892.
Rye, acres, 14 ; bush., 152 ; value, $167. Barley, acres, 88; bush., 781; value, $584.80. Buckwheat, acres, 41 ; bush., 68; value, $51.
Oats, acres, 1011; bush., 2,588; value, $1,549.80. Potatoes, acres, 601 ; bush., f,788; value, $2,894. Tobacco, acre11, 9 ; lbs. 14,600 ; value, $2,191.
English Mowing, acres 1,2211;tons English hay, 1,229 ; value, $12,290.
Wet Meadow  or  Swale mown, 41Ol; tons wet  meadow or swale hay,
885; value, $2,010.
Apple-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  1,896;  value  of  applee,  $1,575;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 207 ; value of pean, $25.
Merino Sheep of  different grades,  1,261; all other kinds of  sheep, 560;
gross  value  of  sheep,  $5,468 ;  lbs.  of  Merino  Wool,  f,867 ; value
$2,888.55;  lbs. of  all other wool produced,  1,881; value,  $940.50.
Horses, 105 ; value, $9,450; Oxen over four years old, 180 ;  Stee1'8  under four years old, 152 ; value of oxen and steel'B, $11,250; Milch Cows, 257 ; Heifel'B, 81 ; value of cows and heifel'B, $11,090 ; lbs. of Butter sold,  $10,825;  value, $2,706.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 17,575 ; value, $1,406.	'
Pork, dl'tlll96d. lbs., 87,820; value, $4,665.62.
Mutt,n, dressed, lbs., 4,000 ; value, $400.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 5,600 ; value, $560.
222	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.

MONROE.	FRA.NltLIK  Co.

Swine, 54 ; value, $482 ; value of Poultry sold, $484 ; value of Eggs sold, $46.50; lbs. of Maple Sugar, 12,400 ; value, $1,550.
Cloth m'd in the family, (137 yards Flannel and 23 yards Frocking ;) value, $171.50 ; value of Socks m'd in the family for sale, $25.


MONROE.
Saw Mills,  4 ;.  feet  of  Lumber   prepared   for  market,  86,000 ; value,
$860.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 52 ; value, $416; cap., (in saw mills,) $1,200 ; hands emp., 4.
\	Farms, 38 ; acres, 5,784 ; value, including Buildings, $48,325 ; acres improved, 1,878; persons emp., 48.
Unimproved Land, acres, 3,797. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,200. Woodland, acres, 2,000 ; value, $30,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 16 ; bush., 540 ; value, $810.
Wheat, acres, 3 ; bush., 45 ; value, $90. Rye, acres, 21; bush., 29 ; value, $45. Barley, acres, 2 ; bush., 16; value, $16. Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 22 ; value, $22. Oats, acres, 17 ; bush., 558 ; value, $500.
Potatoes, acres, 321; bush., 5,397 ; value, $2,158.80.
English Mowing, acres, 718 ; tons of English hay, 684 ; value, $8,208. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,644 ; value of apples, $500.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 168; all other  kinds  of sheep, 328 ;
gross  v,alue  of all sheep,  2,455 ;' lbs.  of Merino Wool,  450 ; value,
$450 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 900 ; value, $720.
Horses, 52 ; value, $4,498 ; Oxen over four years old, 22 ; Steers under four years old, 69 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,500 ; Milch Cows, 112 ; Heifers, 35; value of cows and heifers, $4,917 ; lbs. of Butter sold,  10,000 ; value,  $4,000 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 120 ; value, $25.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 8,596 ; value, $601.72. Pork, dressed, lbs., 11,078; value, $1,550.90. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 258 ; value, $20.
Swine, 18 ; value, $353 ; value of Poultry sold, $79.
Cloth m'd in the family, (plain cloth,) 295 yards ; value, $295. Palm Leaf Hats m'd, 7,000;  value, $560.
Maple Sugar, lbs. sold, 4,000 ; value, $640.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	228
FaANKLIN Co.
MONTAGUE.



MONTAGUE.

Piano-fortes, establishments for the m. of detatched parts of, 1; value m'd; $20,500 ; value of stock used, $8,250 ; cap., $6,000.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,200 ; bbls. of sot\ soap m'd, 300 ; value, $1,500 ; cap., $200; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shope, 2 ;  value of stock  used, $800; value of work done,
$2,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ;
. chairs and settees made, 8,311; value, $3,500 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 8.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value•of tin ware m'd, $450 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. Grain ground, 7,500 ; value, $7,500 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 6,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning   and    Currying    Establishments, ·   1;  value   of   stock   used,
$20,400 ; Hides tanned and curried, 8,838 ; value of Leather tanned
and curried, $29,720 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $50 ; coffins made, 35 ; value, $175 ; cap., $50; hands emp., 1.
Planing Mills and establisments for m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 3; value of stock used, $9,000 ; value of work done, $1,200 ; cap.,
$8,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Boxes, establiahments for m. of, 2; value of stock used, $700 ; value of wooden boxes made, $1,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared fur market, $800 ; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 7; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,500,000 ; value,
$80,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 860,000 ; value, $900 ; value of all other lumber for ship timber and agricultural tools, $600 ; cap., $17,500 ; hands emp., 80.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,800 ; value, $7,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Com and other Brooms m'd, 1,200 , value, $450; value of stock con­
sumed, $300 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Farms,  150;  acres,  14,529 ; value,  including  Buildings,  $408,400 ;
acree of land improved, 6,526; persons emp., 215. Unimproved Land, acres, 3,861.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,418. Woodland, acres, 2,724 ; value, $38,040.
STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
MONTAGUE,	FaANKLIN  Co.

Indian Corn, acres, 598; bush., 18,600 ; value, $17,000.
Broom   Corn, acre11,  40 ; lbs.  of  broom   brush,   17,850 ; value,  $2,900 ;
bush. of broom seed, 1,280 ; value, $740. Wheat, acres, 82; bush., 529 ; value, $1,058. Rye, acres, 567 ; bush., 4,260 ; value, $5,825. Buckwheat, acres, 15 ; bush., 150 ; value, $150. Oats, acre.a, 108 ; bush., 2,700 ; value, $2,160.
Potatoes, acres,  150   bush., 18,720;  value, $4,578.
Turnips cultivated  as a field crop, acres, 4 ; bush.,  1,500;  value, $375.
Onions, acres, t ; bush., 44 ; value, $66.
Carrots, acres, i- ; bush., 400 ; value, $200.
Tobacco, acres,  122; lbs.,  197,500 ;  value, $81,875.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,608 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,982 ; value,
$88,640.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 225 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  175 ; value, $1,750.	·
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,856 ; value of apples, $8,724 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 70 ; value of pears,  $60;  all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 71 ; value  of  fruit, $58; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered·for market,  $226.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 80 ; all other kind of sheep, 254 ; gross value of all sheep,, $1,050; lbs. of Merino Wool produced, 180; value, $78; lbs. of all other wool produed, 1,854 ; value, $677.
Horses, 195 ; value, $14,985 ; Oxen  over four  years old, 184 ; Steers
under four years old, 91 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,770 ; Milch Cows, 881; Heifers, 151; value of cows and heifers, $14,085; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (7  Bulls,)  $800; gallons  of Milk  sold,  1,807 ; value,  $826 ;  lbs.  Butter  sold,  12,492 ; value,
$4,996;  lbs. of  Cheese, 2,985 ; value, $489.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 58,850; value, $5,885. Pork, dressed, lbs., 88,886 ; value, $12,500. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,880 ; value, $188. Veal, dressed, lbs., 7,680 ; value, $921.
Swine, 225 ; value, $8,875 ; value of Poultry sold, $654 ; value  of Eggs sold, $681 ; lbs. of Honey, 485 ; value, $120 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 10; value, $6 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm P1'0duce, $828.
Value of all other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before 'enumerated, $2,005.
Rakes, establishments for the m. of, 1; number m'd, 2,000 ; value, $500;
value of stock used, $100 ; cap., $800; m.emp., 1.
Railroad Ties, 5,000 ; value, $1,400.
Fence Posts, 4,000 ; value, $400.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	225
FBANKLIN  Co.	NEW   SALEH.


NEW  SALEM.
Blacksmith Shope, 4 ; value of stock used, $300 ; value  of  work done, $1,600;  cap., $300; hands emp., 4.
Flouring Mills, 1;bush. of Grain ground, 10,000 ; value, $10,000 ; cap.,
$300 ; hands eIDp., 2.
Boots, pairs of  all kinds m'd, 200;  Shoes, pairs  of  all kinds  m'd, 150;
gross  value  of   stock  used,  $500;  value  of   boots  and  shoes   m'd,
$1,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 4.	f'
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for m. of; 4; value of stock used, $3,500; Palm Leaf Hats made, 108,000 ; value,  $11,097 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 300.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 75,000 ; value, $375 ; cap.,$100 ; hands
eIDP., 8.
Coffius  and  Burial  Cases  of  all 'kinds,  1; value  of  stock  used,   $50 ;
coffius made, 80 ; value, $240 ; cap., $100;  hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 9 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  865,000 ; value,
$8,650 ; 110 cords Pail Staves, 250,000 Shingles prepared for mar­
ket;  value,  $775; cap., $4,750; hands emp., 11,
Firewood  and	ark  prepared  for market,  cords, 800 ; value, $900 ;
hands emp., 5. .
Farms, 182 ;acres, 17,340 ; value, including Buildings, $255,000; acres
improved, 7,804 ; penons emp., 191.
Unimproved Land, acres,	08. Unimprovable Land, acres, 819. Woodland, acres, 4,585; value, $91,700.
Indian Corn, acres, 164 ; bush., 8,280 ; value, $3,280.
Wheat, acres, 87 ; bush., 870 ; value, $7((), Rye, acres, 20; bush., 140; value, $140. Barley, acres, 21 ; bush., 815; value, $286.25.
Buckwheat, acres, 21;  bush.,  210;  value,  $157.50.
Oats, acres, 75; bush., 1,500 ; value, $750. Potatoes, acres, 128; bush., 9,600 ; value, $4,800. Cranberries, acres, 1; bush., 75 ; value, $150.
English Mowing, acres,  1,859 ; tons of English hay, 1,018 ; value,
$12,216.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 718 ; tons of  wet  meadow  or swale hay, 856;  value, $2,492.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,800; value of apples, $1,500.
lit
226	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
NORTHFIELD.	FRANKLIN Co.

Merino Sheep, of different grades, 23 ; all other kinds of sheep, 275 ;
·gross value of all sheep, $596 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 70 ; value, $35; lbs. of all ot.her wool produced, 825 ; value, $275.
Horses, 148 ; value, $7,400; Oxen over four years old, 96 ; Steers wider four years old, 110 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,000; Milch Cows, 348 ; Heifers, 110 ; value of cows and heifers, $9,855; lbs. of Butter sold, 8,971 ; value, $2,248 ; lbs. of Cheese, 5,400 ; value,
$540.
Beef, dressed, lbs.,	,700 ; value,  $2,502. Pork, dre8l!ed, lbs., 88,800; value, $3,104. Mutton, dreeaed, lbs., 8,000 ; value, $2'!0. Veal, dressed, lbs., 8,235 ; value, $658.80.
Swine, 80 ; value, $800 ; value of Poulµ-y sold, $200 ; value of Eggs sold, $376; lbs. of Honey, 875; value, $63; lbs. of Beeswax, 20 ; value, $7.
Infant Carriage Wheels, establishments for m. of, 2; wheels m'd, 4,200 ; value, $3,000 ; value of stock used, $600 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 6:


NORTHFIELD.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $350 ; value of work done,
$1,500 ; cap., $600; hands emp., 4.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for  m. of,  1; value  of stock
used, $11000 ; Palm Leaf Hats made, 80,000; value, $3,000; cap.,
$1,500;  f. emp., 40.
Pail and Tub Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $6,000; pailsm'd, 80,000; value, $8,400; cap., $1,500;  hands etnp., 5.
Planing Mills and establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors and  Blinds,  value of stock used,  $500; value of 888bes, «¥>Ors and blinds   m'd,.
$800 ; value of  all other work  done,  $700; cap., $1,800; banda
emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 10; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 460,000 ; value,
$5,535;  Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, ·and Staves prepe.red for	ket,
6,000 ; value, $200 ; cap., $8,500 ; buds emp., 10.
Firewood and Bark, cords prepared for market, 1,000 ; value, $3,500 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp.,80.
Com and other Brooms m'd, 160,000 ; value, $18,000; value of stock consumed, $4,800 ; cap.; $8,600 ; hands emp., 6.
Fa,nns,229; acres, 12,555; value of same,including Buildings, $380,728; acres of land improved, 9,277; persons emp., 811.
1865.] ·	INDUSTRY  OF  ::MASSACHUSETTS.	227
Fauna. N  Co.	NORTHFIELD.

Unimproved Land, acres, 8,092. Unimprovable Land, acres, 186. Woodland, acres, 2,838 ; value, $49,492.
Indian Com, acres, 583 ; bush., 18,046 ; value, $21,655.
Broom Com, acres, 88 ; lbs. of broom Brush, 84,765 ; value, $4,771; bush. of  broom  Seed, 3,299 ; value, $1,820.
Wheat, acres, 85 ; bush., 686 ; value, $1,876. Rye, acres, 18; bush., 1,808; value, $2,250. Barley; acres, 8 ; bush., 42 ; value, $68.
Buckwheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 40 ; value, $40.
Oats, acres, 282 ; bush., 8,360 ; value, $5,016. Potatoes, acres, 109 ; bush., 11,081; value, $8,809.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2 ; bush., 250 ; value, $70. Bop11, acres, 271;  lbe., 8,155 ; value, $2,280.
Tobacco, acres, 237 ; lbs., 376,210 ; value, $59,476.
English Mowing,  acres,  2,415 ; tons of  English  bay, 2,701;   value,
$80,412.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 66 ; tons of wet meadow or ewale hay, 94 ; value, $650.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,038; value of apples, $4,422; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 180 ; value of pears, $200 ; value of Nute or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $629.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 817 ; all other kinds of sheep, 1,014 ;
gross value of all sheep, 3,993 ; lbe. of Merino Wool, 1,100 ; value,
$1,085 ; lbe. of all other wool produced, 3,174 ; value, $2129.
Hones, 823 ; value, $20,026 ; Oxen over four years old, 154; Steen under four years old, 160 ; value of oxen and steers, $15,150 ; Milch Cows, 585 ; Heifers, 220; value of cows and heifers, $25,425 ; gallons of Milk sold, 400 ; value, $25; lbe. of Butter sold,  10,875 ; value,
$8,628; lbe. of Cheese, 1,585 ; value, $200.
139' dressed, lbe., 197,745 ; value, $15,819.60•
.		.dressed, lbe., 87,558; value, $10,506.86. Veal, dressed, lbe., 4,800 ; value, $480.
Swine,.242; value, $2,900 ; value of ·Poultry sold, $230 ; value  of Eggs sold $249 ; lbe. of Honey, 250; value, $75 ; value of unenu­ merated  articles of  Farm Produce, (100 bush. Beans,)  $800.
228
STATISTICS  OF THE
(1865.
ORANGE.

FRANKLIN   Co.


ORANGE.

Woollen Mills, 1; sets woollen machinery, 1; yards of Satinet m'd,
8,400 ; nlue, $14,000 ; cap., $10,000; m. emp., 12 ; £ emp., 7.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m.·of, 1; value of stock used, $7,000 ; tone of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 100 ; value, $12,000 ; cap., $5,000; hands emp., 8.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $20,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $80,000 ; cap., $7,000; hands emp., 20.
Mechanics'   Tools  m'd   and   not   elsewhere   enumerated,   gross value,
$51,000 ; value of stock used, $26,000 ; cap.,$18,000; hands emp., 56. Looking-Glaeees and Picture Frames, manufactories of, 1; value  of stock  used,  $150 ;  articles  m'd,  100;   value,   $500 ;  cap.,  $200 ;
hands emp., I.
Saddles, Harnessee, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; harnesses m'd, 58; value, $1,800 ; value of stock bsed, $650 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Railroad C Coaches, Chaises,  Wagone, Sleighs, and  other vehicles,
establishments for m. of,  1; sleighs  m'd,  74 ; value,  $5,000-; value of stock used, $8,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $20 ; wheels m'd, 16 ; value, $50; cap., $100 ; hands emp., I.
Blacksmith  Shope, 4 .; value of  stock used, $800 ; value  of  work done,
$8,100, cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 5.
·Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used,  $85,000 ;
chairs and settees made, 84,000 ; value, $60,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; m.
-emp., 70 ; f. emp., 80.
·Cabinet Manufactories, 4 ; value of stock used, $15,000; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $87,600 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 22.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $200 ; Palm Leaf Hats made,  8,000 ;  value, $850 ; cap.,
$250 ; £ emp., 75.
Pail and Tu'b Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used,  $15,500 ; pails m'd, 120,000; value, $19,200 ;. cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 19.
Kegs, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $15 ; casks m'd,
100 ; value, $50 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $150; coffins made, 50 ; value, $500 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., I.
Sashes and Doore m'd, 4,100 doors, 1,700 sashes ; value, $5,200 ; value of stock used, $2,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	229
FRANKLIN  Co.	0RANGB.

Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for  market,  1,435,000 ; value,
$215,000 ; Laths, Clapboards and Staves prepared for market, 10,000 ; value, $60 ; shingles, 50,000; value, $100 ; cap.; $10,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Firelood and  Bark  prepared  for  market,  111 cords bark,  19.6 cords
wood ; value of bark, $1,089 ; value of wood, $1,087 ; hands emp., 15.
Farms, 178 ; acres 17,458; value, including Buildings, $280,800 ; acres
of land improved, 8,881; persons emp., 200. Unimproved  Land,  acres, 2,902.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,818.
Woodland, acres, 2,898 ; value, $59,630.
Indian Corn, acres, 166 ; bush., 4,765 ; value, $7,147.
Wheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 193 ; value, $482. Rye, acres, 81; bush., 107 ; value, $157. Barley, acres, 23 ; bush., 890 ; value, $456. Buckwheat, acres, 3 ; bush., 25 ; value, $25. Oats, acres, 74 ; bush., 1,756 ; value, $1,480.
Potatqes, acres, 123 ; bush., 1,756 ; value, $6,041.
English Mowing,   acres, 1,981;   tons  of   English  hay,  1,880 ;  value,
$21,600.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,017 ; tons of wet meadow or ewale hay, 457 ; value, $5,484.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,745 ; value of apples, $2,122 ; value of Peaches sold, $70.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 50 ; all other kinds of sheep, 575 ; gross value of all sheep, $3,125 ; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 114; value, $100 ; lbs. of Merino wool, 256 ; value, $256 ; lbe. of all other wool produced, 1,091 ; value, $775.
Horses, 243 ; value, $18,225; Oxen over four years old, 112 ; Steers under four years old, 80 ; value of oxen and steers, $13,880 ; Milch Cows, 463 ; Heifers, 885 ; value of cows and heifers, $6,627 ;  value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (88 Colts,) $2,380; lbs. of Butter sold, 15,120 ; value, $4,409.60 ; lbs. of Cheese, 43,538 ; value,
$8,707.60.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 98,588; value, $9,858.80. Pork, dressed, lbe., 57,000; value,  $9,500.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 8,250; value, $495. Veal, lbe., 4,174 ; value, $417.40.
Swine,.144 ; value, $2,160 ; value of Poultry sold, $188.81; value of Eggs sold, $100 ; lbe. of Honey, 200 ; value, $75 ; value of Maple Sngar and Molaaies, $550 ; Wine, gallons, 210 ;' value, $350.
280	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1866.
RoWE.	FRANKLIN     Co.


ROWE.

Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 1; yards of Satinet m'd, 800; value, $300 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m.o( 1; value of custom work done, $500 ; value of stock used, $200 ; cap.,$200 ; hands emp., 1.
Clothing, establishments for m. o( 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of  clothing m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $600 ; m. emp,. 1; f. emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value  of stock  used, $150;  value  of work done,
$400 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp.,·2.
Cabinet Manufaetories, (repair shop,) 1; value of stock used, $75 ; cap., $850 ; hands emp., 1.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $1,000; Hides tanned, 350 ; hides tanned and curried, 800 ; value of leather tanned and  curried,  $1,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands  emp., 1.
Saw  Mills, 2 ;  feet  of'Lumber  prepared  for  market,  20,000; value,
$800;  value  of  Broom   Handles  m'd,  $500 ;  cap.,  $300 ;  hands
emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 180 ; value, $288. Charcoal, bush.m'd, 400 ; value, $28.
Farms, 92 ; acres, 14,918; value, including Buildings, $128,170 ; acres of land improved, 6,808 ; persons emp., 107.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,216. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,678. Woodland, acres, 4,716 ; value, $28,580.
Indian Com, acres, 62 ; bush., 2,129 ; value, $2,661. Wheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 82 ; value, $54.
Rye, acres, 1; bush., 15; value, $19. Barley, acres, 28 ; bush., 643; value, $804.
Buckwheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 150 ; value, $112. Oats, acres, 32 ; bush.; 783 ; value, $738.
Potatoes, acres, 74 ; bush.,  12,770 ; value, $8,881.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1 ; bush., 75 ; value, $19. Carrots, acres, i- ; bush., 125 ; value, $37.
Tobacco, acres, 2 ; lbs., 1,000 ; value, $100.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,300 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,712 ; value,
$13,670.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for their  fruit, 1,800 ; value  of apples, $1,024.
Merino Sheep, of  different  grades, 800 ; al1 other kinds of sheep, 1,018;   ·
gross value  of  sbep,  $5,594 ; lbs.  of  Merino   Wool,   2,108;  value,
$1,897 ; lbs. of al1 other wool produced, 2,524; value, $1,517.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETI'S.	281
FRANJ[LIK  Co.	SBELBUBNL

Horeee, 84 ; value, $2,990 ; Oxen over four years old, 58 ; Steers under four years old, 157 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,222 ; Milch CoWB, 199 ; Heifers, 107 ; value of cows and heifers, $9,154 ; lbs. of Butter  sold, 5,000 ; value,  $1,500 ; lbs. of  Cheese,  1,405 ; value,
$810.
Beef; dreseed,  lbs., 29,800;  value, $2,884.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 22,440 ; value, $2,884,
Swine, 50 ; value, $574 ; value of Poultry sold, $406; value of Eggs sold $180 ; lbs. of  Honey, 165 ; value, $85.
Cloth, yards m'd in the family, (Woollen Flannel,) 488 ; value, $488.


SHELBURNE.
Hollow Ware and CMtings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, '2,000 ; value of hollow ware and other castings m'd, $5,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp.,  5.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishment8 for m.  of, 1; gross value of st.oek used, $1,500; value of machinery m'd, $6,000; cap., $4,000 ; bands ell)p., 6.
Angers, Bits, and  Gimlets,  manufactories   of,  1; value  of  stock  used,
$5,000 ; gimlet8  m'd,  55,000 ; bit8  m'd,  6,500;  value,  $12,000 ;
hands emp., 11.
Axes, Hatchets, and other Edge Tools, establishment8 for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $18,000 ; dozens of axes, hatchets, and other edge tools m'd, 2,100 ; value, $80,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; bands emp., 12. Lock Manufactoriee, 1; value of stock used, $15,000 ; locks m'd, 6,291;
value, $54,847 ; cap., $24,000 ; bands emp., 80.
Printing and Newspaper Establisbment8, 1; value of stock used, $500;
value of printing done, $500 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1.
Daguerreian  and Photographic  Establishments,  1; value of stock used,
$1,000; daguerreotypes and pb9tograpbs taken, 10,000; value, $2,500 ;
cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establisbmentB for m. of, 1; number of harnesses m'd, 40; value, $1,520 ; value of stock used, $800 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing,   establishment.s   for   the   m.  of,  1 ;   value   of   stock used,
$4,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $2,000; m. emp., 1;
£  emp., 8.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock nsed, $1,000 ; Monuments of all sizes m'd, 40 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 8.
282	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.

SHELBURNE.	FRANKLIN Co.

Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 7 ; value, $6,000 ; value of materials used, $3,200 ; hands emp., 6.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,100 ; value of work done,
$4,000; cap., $1,000;  hands emp., 4.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $2,350 ; chairs and settees made, 6,000 ; value, $3,500 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 5.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $8,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock. used, $1,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,700;  cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $3,000 ; hides tanned, 500 ; hides tanned and cumed, 150 ; value of leather tanned  and cumed,  $3,150; cap., $1,500;  hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 810; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 745 ;
gross value  of stock used, $3,800 ; value of boots and shoes m'd,
$7,905 ; cap.,.$1,850; m. emp., 7; f. emp., 3.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $700 ; coffins made, 100 ; value, $1,200; cap., $350; hands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved, 120 ; value, $500 ; cap., $600; hands emp., 1.
Distilleries, 1; bbls. of Alcohol distilled, 5 ; value, $480 ; hands emp. for a few weeks, 1.
Saw Mills, 3 ; feet of ·Lumber prepared for market, 150,000 ; value,
$1,800 ; cap., $1,050; bands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 260 ; value, $1,800. Com and other Brooms m'd, 1,800 ; value, $600 ; value of stock con­
sumed, $400 ; cap., $50 ; bands emp., 1.
Farms, 101; acres, 18,901; value, including Buildings, $546,866 ; acres improved, 10,286 ; persons emp., 245.
Unimproved Land, acres, 900. Unimprovable Land, acres, 846. Woodland, acres, 1,919 ; value, $(7,975.
Indian Corn, acres, 181; bush., 9,174; value, $18,761. Wheat, acres, 38 ; bush., 640 ; value, $1,280.
Rye, acres, 1; bush., 249; value, $378.50. Barley, acres, 23; bush., 755; value, $925. Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 13; value, $18. Oats, acres, 67; bush., 2,436 ; value, $1,827.
Potatoes, acres, 69 ; bush., 10,448 ; value,  $5,221.50.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	288
FJU.N][LIN  Co.	SBUTE8BURY.

Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, ll ; bush., 1,288 ; value, $800. Gmots, acres, ll ; bush., 741; value, $200.
Tobecoo, acres, 29 ; lbs., 89,826 ; value, $7,965.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,876 ; tons  of English  hay,  2,762; value,
$83,144.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown,  acres,  179 ; tons  wet meadow or    swale
hay, 205;  value,  $1,280.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,524 ; value of apples, $8,897 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit, 222 ;  value  of  pears,  $84 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 408 ; value, $486 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $30.
Merino Sheep, of  different grades, 1,468;  all other kinds of sheep, 861 ;
gross value of  all sheep, $9,816 ; lbs. of  Merino Wool,  6,717 ;  value,
$4,216.87 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 8,016; value, $1,588.40 ;
Colts under  four years old, 51;  value, $8,850.
Hol'l!e8, 181; value, $19,910 ; Oxen over four years old, 150 ; Steers under four years old, 208; value of oxen and steers, $17,211 ; Milch Cows, 378; Heifers, 215; value of cows and heifers, $19,628 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (11 Bulls,) $900 ; lbs. of Butter sold,  25,652 ;  value,  $10,260.80;  lbs.  of  Cheese,  8,500 ; value,
$1,416.66.
• Beet; dressed, lbs., 225,780 ; value,  $22,578.  Pork, dreseed, lbs., 59,810 ; value, $8,897.85. Mutton,  dressed,  lbs.  5,220;   value,  $522.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 4,260;  value, $596.40.
Swine, 67 ; value, $1,050; value of Poultry sold, $566; value of Eggs sold, $470 ; lbs. of Honey, 285; value, $70.50.
Cloth m'd in the family, 80 yards Flannel, 187 yards Frocking, 66  yards
Fulled Cloth ; value, $655.
Maple  Sugar, lbs.,  18,680; value,  $8,786.
Bit Braces m'd, dozens,  8,600 ; value,  $86,000 ; value of stock used,
$24,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 12.


SHUTESBURY.
Q,.rriage Wheels, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; wheels m'd, 108 ;  value,  $405;  cap., $100 ; hands  emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shope, 2 ; value of stock used, $500 ; value of work done,
$800; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
80
STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
SHUTBSBURY.	FRA.NltLill    Co.

Boots of all kinds, pa.ire m'd, 500;  Shoes of all kinds,  pa.ire  m'd, 200  ;
gross  value  of  stock. 1188d,  $1,800;  value  of  boots  and  shoes  m'd,
$2,500 ; cap., $500; m. emp., 4.
Straw  Bonnets  and  Hats, value  of  stock  used,  $740;  Palm   Leaf Hat8
made, 16,990 ; value, $2,221 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 80.
Gold and  Steel Pens, and  Gold  and  Silver  Pencil  Cases,  1;,value  of
stock used, $800; gold pens m'd, 2,018 ; value, $2,000; cap., $800 ;
m. emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 10 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 910,000; value,
$10,840 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves ppared for mar­ ket, 120,000 ; value, $825; value of all other lumber, (3,600 Rail­ road Ties,) $900 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Firewood.,uid  Bark prepared for market,  cords,  1,011 ; value,  $8,281;
hands emp., 10.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 59,000 ; value, $4,680;  cap., $2,500 ; hands emp.,
3.
Farms,  150; acres,  15,190 ; value,  including  Buildings,  $155,860 ;
acres improved, 8,844 ; persons emp., 150. Unimproved Land, acres, 5,503.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,058. Woodland, acres, 8,662 ; value, $42,844.
Indian Corn, acres, 89 ; bush ., 1,757 ; value, $8,074.75.	• Rye, acres, 15 ; bush., 118 ; value, $206.50.
Barley, acres, 3; bush., 81 ; value, $46.50. Buckwheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 81; ·value, $81. Oats, acres, 50 ; bush., 814; value, $814.
· Potatoes,  acres,  115 ; bush., 10,105 ;  value,  $4,042.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1; bush., 200 ; value, $50. Carrots, acres, 1 ; bush., 500 ; value, $250.
Tobacco, acres, 6 ; lbs., 5,990;  value, $898.50.
English   Mowing,   acre1t,   1,192 ;  tons   of  English   hay,   641; value,
$11,538.	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 473 ; tone of wet meadow orswale hay, 197 ; value, $1,576.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,000 ; value of apples, $1,305 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 100; value of pears, $18 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 100 ; value of fruit, $25 ; valu of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $116.
Sheep, 177 ; value, $785 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 708 ; value, $283.20. Horses, 104 ; value, $7,235 ; Oxen over . four years old, 82 ; Steers under four years old, 82 ; value of oxen  and steers, $7,780 ; Milch
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.
F.IWfKLIN Co.	SUNDERLAND.

Cows, 191 ; Heifers, 67 ; value of cows and heifers, $7,830 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 2,524 ; value, $1,009.60 ; lbe. of Cheese, 8,610 ; value,
$488.20.
Beet; dressed, lbe., 18,750 ; value, $1,500. Pork, dressed, lbs., 80,927 ; value, $4,639.05. Mutton, dressed, lbe., 750 ; value, $60.
Veal, dre8eed, lbe., 620;  value, $52.
Swine, 65; value, $1,045 ; value of  Poultry sold, $150; value of  Eggs
I
sold, $884 ; lbe. of Honey, 72 ; value, $18 ; value of unenumeratecl articles  of  Farm Produce, $100.	·
Infant Carriage Wheels, establi.shmenta' for m. of, 1; wheels m'd, 5,000 ; value, $600 ; value of stock used, $100 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.


SUNDERLAND•.
Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 19; value, $7,700 ; value of materials used, $5,500 ; hands emp., 5.	.
Blacksmith  Shops, 1; value of stock  used, $400 ; value  of work  done,
$900; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1, and a boy.
Flouring Mills,· 1; bush. of Grain ground, $10,000 ; value, $12,500; J>bls. Flour m'd, 200 ; value, $1,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Currying Establishments,  1;  value  of  stock  used,  $2,000 ; Hides
curried, 850 ; value, $2,700 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 250,000 ;   value,
.$8,725; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 175 ; value, $1,050.
Com and other Brooms, m'd, 6,000 ; value, $1,800 ; value of stock , consumed, $1,100 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 1.
Farms, 144 ; acres, 7,187 ; value, including Buildings, $889,975 ; acres of land improved, 2,516; persons emp., 188.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,618. Unimprovable Land, acres, 817. Woodland, acres, 1,186 ; value, $11,860.
Indian Corn, acres, 808; bush., 9,706; value, $14,559.
Broom Corn, acres, 89 ; lbe. of broom brush, 26,540 ; value, $4,585 ; bush. broom seed, 2,034 ; value, $2,034.
Wheat, acres, 171; bush., 255; value, $510. Rye, acres, 175; bush., 1,650 ; value, $2,475. Buckwheat, acres, 21; bush., 28 ; value, $35. Oats, acres, 85; bush., 2,828; value, $2,828.
286	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
SUNDERLAND.	FRA.NKLIN    Co.

Potatoes, acres, 53 ; bush., 4,939 ; value, $2,469.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 6; bush., 2,580; value, $516. Onions, acres, 29 ; bush ., 18,471 ; value, $16,521.
Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 1,140 ; value, $570. Cabbage, acres, 2 ; value, $585.
Garden Seeds, acres, l ; value, $25.
Beets and other esculent vegetables,	.}; bush., 855 ; value, $140. Tobacco, acres, 288; lbs., 588,000; value, $101,037.
Sorghum, acres, i ; gallons Sirup, 12 ; value, $15.
English  Mowing,  acres,  842 ; tons of  English  hay,  1,088 ; value,
$21,660.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 67 ; tons wet meadow or ewale hay, 61 ; value, $610.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,805 ; value of apples, $2,981; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 244 ; value of pears, $99 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 97 ; value  of fruit, $81 ; value of Nute or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $25 ; value of grapes,  $216.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 52 ; all other kinds of sheep, 574; groee value of sheep, $8,820 ; lbe. of Merino Wool, 220 ; value, $110 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 2,079 ; value, $1,039.
Ho1'8e&, 180; value, $19,640 ; Oxen over four years old, 26; Steers under four years old, 86; value of oxen and steers, $2,185 ; Milch Cows, 302 ; Heifers, 88 ; value of cows and heifers, $14,890; value of Neat  Stock  not  embraced  above, (7 Bulle, $275; 105 dry cows,
$4,600 ;) $4,875 ; gallons of Milk sold, 505 ; value, $100 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 24,202 ; value,  $8,826; lbs. of Cheese,  1,125; value,
$169.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 18,450; value, $1,818. Pork, dressed, lbs., 86,058 ; value, $13,212. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 800 ; value, $37.
Vea1, dressed, lbs., 450 ; value, $52.
Swine, 181; value, $8,892 ; value of Poultry sold, $374 ; value of Eggs sold, $675; lbs. of Honey, 245; value, ·$65; lbs. of Beeswax, 12; value, $7 ; lbe. Maple Sugar, 6,500 ; value, $1,267.
18.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	287
FRANKLIN  Co.	WARWICL


WARWICK.
Woollen Yarn m'd, lbe., 150 ; value, $225.
Glue Manufaetories, and manufactories for the preparation of Gmns, 1; value of stock used, $2,400 ; value of glue and gums m'd, $8,600 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $14,748 ; Hides tanned, 1,700 ; hides tanned and curried, 1,700 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $16,688 ; cap,, $4,700 ; hands emp., 5.
Boots, pain of all kinds m'd, 10,092 ; gross value of stock used, $16,500;
value of boots m'd, $22,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 18; f. emp., 2.
Boxes, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of wooden boxes made, $500 ; m. emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 20 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,555,000; value,
$18,727;  hands emp., 20.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,425 ; value,  $8,550.
Farms, 150 ; acres, 21,588; value, including Buildings, $176,610 ; acres improved, 7,275 ; persons emp., 200.
Unimproved Land, acres, 9,848. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,580. Woodland, acres, 2,597 ; value, $42,654.
Indian Corn, acres, 103; bush., 2,592 ; value, $8,240.
Wheat, acres, 10 ;·bush., 186 ; value, $4. Rye, acres, 28 ; bush., 280 ; value, $345.
Barley, acres, 18; bush., 857 ; value, $446. Oats, acres, 55; bush., 1,298; value, $975.
Potatoes, acres, 103; bush., 10,848 ; value, $5,421.
Turnips, bush., 582 ; value, $117.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,591; tons  of English  hay, 1,012 ; value,
$15,180.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 556;  tons of wet meadow  or swale
hay, 854 ; value, $2,882.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,000 ; value of apples, $2,000 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $800.
Sheep, 572 ; value,  $1,716 ; lbe.  of Wool  produced,  1,940 ; value,
$1,164.
Horses, 170 ; value, $6,800 ; Oxen over four years old, 127 ; Steen under four years old, 128 ; value of oxen and steers, $18,290 ; Milch Cows, 834 ; Heifers, 189 ; value of cows and heifers, $9,460 ; lbs. of Butter aold, 5,837 ; value, $2,884.	·
Beet; dressed, lbe., 32,856;  value, $2,957.
238	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
WUDELL. .	FB.ilnm Co.

Pork, dressed, lbs., 89,496 ; value, $5,924.
Mutton, drelsed, lbs., 170 ; value, $28.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,250 ; value, $225.
Swine,  153 ; value,  $2,295; value  of  Poultry  sold,  $240 ; value of
Eggs sold, $288.
Cloth m'd in the family, (Gray Flannel,) yards, 48 ; value, $65. Maple  Sugar, lbs., 10,000 ; value, JI,500.


WENDELL.

Detached parts of Piano Fortes, eetablishmenta for m. of, 1; value m'd,
$15,000 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; cap., $8,000.
Saw Mills, 18 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,180,000 ; value,
$11,800 ; cap., $8,575; hands emp., 18. :
.Firewood  and Bark prepared  for market, cords,  2,500 ; value,  $7,000 ;
cap., $800 ; hands emp., average,  15.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 10,000;  value, $1,000 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 5.
Farms,  145 ; acres, 19,300 ; value, including Buildings,  $149,695;
acres improved,  3,058;  persons  emp., 115.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,416. Unimprovable Land, acres, 8,846. Woodland, acres, 2,485 ; value, $37,275.
Indian Corn, acres, 48 ; bush., 889 ; value, $1,825.
Barley, acres, 4 ; bush., 61 ; value, $61.
Oats, acres, 10 ; bush., 175 ; value, $140.
Potatoes, acres, 68 ; bosh., 5,447 ; value, $2,178.
English Mowing, acres, 595 ; tons of English hay, 458 ; value, $8,040.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 125 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  75;  value, $450.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 300 ; value of apples,  $250 ;
value o( Nuts or Berries cultivatoo or gathered for 11181'ket, $400.
Sheep, 30 ; value, $90 ; lbe. of Wool produced, 120; value, $60.
Horses, 102 ; value, $4,080 ; Oxen over four years old, 77 ; Steers under four years old, 26; value of oxen and steers, S5,910; Milch Cows, 149 ; Heifers, 28 ; value of cows and heifers, $4,890 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (48 Yearlings,) $384 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 1,050 ; value, $262.50; lbs. of Cheese, 500 ; value, $50.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 7,500 ; value; $750.
Pork, dressed, lbe., 15,750;  value,  $2,862.50.
1865.)	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	239
Fa.unu.IN Co.	WHATELY.

Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,000 ; value, $200.
Swine, 43 ; value, $510.
Palm Leaf	ata and Webe, value,  $1,500.
Maple Sugai, lbs., 2,000 ; value, $500.



WHATEI:..Y.

Woollen Mills, 2 ; sets of machinery, 2 ; lbs. of scoured wool COll81JDled, · 40,000 ; gross value of stock need, $62,175 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 86,992; value, $86,992 ; lbs. of woollen Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 3,500 ; value, $4,250 ; cap., $40,000 ; m. emp., 19; £ emp., 12.
Hoeiery, eetabhmente for m. of, ·1; value of stock used, $10,000 ; Men'& wool hose m'd, pairs, 30,000 ; value, $14,000 ; cap.,  $2,000 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 8.	·
Port Monnaiee, Pocket Books, and Wallet.s, establishments for m. of, 2; doz. of each m'd, 1,800; value, $3,600; value of stock need, $950 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 7.	.
Blacbmith Shope, 1; value of stock  used,  $500 ; value·of  work done,
$1,800 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 1.	•
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush.,of Grain ground, 21,000 ; value, $80,500 ; bble; of  Flour m'd, 300; value, $8,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Boote, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; pairs  of Shoes of all  kinds  m'd, 25;
value of boots and shoes m'd, $600 ; cap., $75; m. emp., 1.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 500 ; value, $2,000.
Com and other Brooms m'd, 62,000 ; value, $11,162 ; value of stock ooDBUIDed, $8,000; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 7.
Farms, 151; acres, 12,002 ; value, including Buildings, $4$7,267 ; acres
of land improved, 10,582 ; pe1110DS emp., 268.
Unimproved Land, acres, 700. Unimprovable Land, acres, 400. Woodland, acree, 1,870; value,  $56,100.
IDdian Corn, acres, 240 ; bush., 6,882; value, $12,764.
Wheat, acres, 86; bush.,  1,113; value,  $2,782.50.
Rye, acres, 159 ; bush.,  1,894 ;  $3,508.90.
Oats, acres, 39l; bush., 1,011 ; value, $1,011. , Potaioee, aeree, 88 ; bush., 5,558; value, $2,779. Tobacco, acres, 308 ; lbs., 526,72t ; value, $105,844.80.
English  Mowing, acres,  1,170 ; tooa  of  English  hay,  1,465 ; value,
$29,300.
240	STATISTICS OF THE	(I865.
AGA.WA.H.	liA.HPDEN    Co.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 681; tons of wet meadow orswale bay, 668;  value, $6,680.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,444 ; value of BJ>ples, $463 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 468; value of Ntfts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $110.
Saxony Sheep of different grades, 170 ; value, $800; lbs. of Wool, 647 ; value, $647.
Horses, 194 ; value, $15,000 ; Oxen over four years old, 93; ·Steers under four years old, 192 ; value of oxen and sel'B, $15,875 ; Milch Cows, 317 ; Heifel'B, 172; value of cows and heifers, $17,518; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, $3,786 ; gallons of Milk sold, 1,000 ; value, $240 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 12,590;  value, $4,406.50; lbs. of  Cheese, 1,470; value, $245.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 222,020;  value,   $26,642.40.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 23,000; value, $3,680.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 28,700 ; value, $4,305. VeaI, dressed, lbs., 3,900 ; value, $468.
Swine, 122 ; value, $2,085 ; value of Poultry sold, $31; value of Eggs sold, $232.




H A M P D E N	C O U N T Y .

AGAWAM.
Woollen Mills, 1;.sets of machinery, 1; lbs. of scoured wool consumed, 17,441; gross v:alue of stock  used,  $18,885 ; yards  of  Cassi.mere m'd,  2,556 ;  value,   $4,019 ;  yards  of   Satinet   m'd,  2,835;   value,
$3,872 ;  yards  of  Flannel  or  Blanketing,  8,416 ;  value,  $8,977 ;  ll>s.  of  Woollen  Yarn  m'd, and  not  made  into  cloth, 2,487 ; value,
$4,214; value of all other woollen goods m'd, 46 doz. Wrappers and Drawers ; value, $756 ; 27 doz. Stockings ; value, $90 ; 1,125 yards Tweed ; value, $1,458; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 7.
Distilleries,   1; value  o.f  stock  used,  $45,000;  bbls. of  Gin   distilled,
45,000 ; value, $117,000 ; cap., unable to ascertain ; hands emp., 5. Shad taken, 15,000; value, $3,000; hands emp., 21.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 500 ; value, $2,500.
Farms, 284 ; acres, 13,529 ; value, including Buildings, $625,342 ; acres
of land improved, 18,204; persons emp., 516.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	241
lLUllPDEN  Co.	AGAWAM.

Unimproved  Land, acres, 825. Woodland,  acres, 1,018;  value, $48,180.
Indian Com; acres, 446 ; bush., 12,980 ; value, $12,980.
Broom Corn,acres, 3i; lbs. of broom brush, 2,500 ; value, $175 ; bush. of broom seed, 175 ; value, $105.
Wheat, acres, 17 ; bush., 265 ; value, $580. Rye, acres, 742 ; bush., 8,904 ; value, $8,904. Barley, acres, 11; bush., 275 ; value, $275.
Buckwheat, acres, 154 ; bush., 2,780 ; value, $2,085.
Oats, acres, 180 ; bush., 2,780 ; value, $2,14:7. Potatoes, acres, 229 ; bush., 11,MO ; value, $9,200.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field  crop,  acres,  96 ; bush., 9,800 ; value,
$1,960.
Onions, acres, ll ; bush., 250 ; value, $250.
Carrots, li; bush., 800 ; value, $100. Cabbage, acres, 6 ; value, $2,000.
Winter Squash, acres, 3 ; value, $500.
Tobacco, acres, 143; lbs. 189,080 ; value, $17,885.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,325 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  3,513; value,
$52,695.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 258; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 303 ; value, $2,424.
Apple-trees cultivated for their frui 11,885 ; value of apples, $7,000 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,500 ; value of pears, $700. Sheep, 782 ; value, $2,800 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 2,882; value, $1191. Horses, 292 ; value, $28,040; Oxen over four years old, 814 ; Steers under four years old, 258 ; value of oxen and steers, $30,000 ; Milch
Cows, 598 ; Heifers, UO ; value of cows and heifers, $24,000; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (350 Yearlings, &c.,) $3,500 ; gallons of Milk sold, 43,800 ; value, $7,000 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 59,000 ; value,  $14,800 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 1,200 ; value, $150.
dressed, lbs., 124,560 ; value, $7,000. Pork, dressed, lbs., 32,000 ; value, $2,560. Mutton, dressed, lbs. 790 ; value, $79.
Veal, dressed, lbe., 5,000 ; value, $500.
Swine, 442 ; value, $4,420 ; value . of Poultry sold, $340 ; value of Eggs sold, $470; lbs. of Honey,  884 ; value, $57.
Watermelom, acres, 12 ; value, $800.
81 .
242	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
BLANDFORD,	HAMPDEN   Co.


BLANDFORD.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagollfl, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 2 ; number m'd, (2 Wagons, 6 Sleighs,) 8; value, $500 ; value of stock used, $250; cap., $1,300; hands emp., 1. Blacksmith  Shops, 4 ; value of  stock used, $700 ;. value  of  work done,
.  $1,600 ; cap., $610 ; hands emp., 4.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 3 ; value of stock used, $32,000; Hides tanned, 4,800 ; hides tanned and curried, 8,750; value  of Leather tanned and curried, $32,100 ; cap., $10,400 ; htU1ds emp., 12. Saw  Mills, 10; feet  of  Lumber  prepared   for market,  789,000 ;  value,
$8,448 ; Shingles  prepared   for  market,  30,000 ; value,  $90 ; cap.,,,
$8,600 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,0751 ; value, $11,128 ; cap., $3,600 ; hands emp., 9.
Charooal m'd, bush., 9,200; value, $736 ; cap., $450 ; hands emp., 2.
Farms, 200 ; acres, 28,928 ; value, including Buildings, $859,466 ; acres improved, 12,447 ; persons emp., 256.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,602. Unimprovable Land, acres, 7,343. Woodland, acres, 5,086 ; value, $62,239.
Indian Com, acres, 94t ; bush., 2,600 ; ,·alue, $3,900. Rye, acres, 14; bush., 188 ; value, $288.
Barley, acres, 26f ; bush., 448; value, $664. Buckwheat, 20f ; bush., 459 ; value, $367. Oats, acres, 48 ; bush., 993 ; value, $993.
Potatoes, acres, l 60t ; bush., 16,135; value, $8,067. Carrots, acres, 11; bush., 1,000 ; value, $300: Tobacco, acres, 31; lbs., 3,398 ; value, $553.
English Mowing, acres, 3,819 ; tons English hay, 2,768; value, $55,360.
,ve,t Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 845 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 588 ; value, $2,915.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,997 ; value of apples, $1,800 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 14; value  of  pears, $12 ;  value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $100.
Sheep,  1,185 ; value,  $3,428; lbs. of Wool produced,  3,969 ; value,
$2,778.
Horses, 233 ; value, $28,260 ; Oxen over four years old, 222 ; Steere under fou»years old, 151 ; value of oxen and steers, $27,649 ; Milch Cows, 1,087 ; Heifers, 101; value of cows and heifere, $86,322 ; value of Neat  Stock not  embraced  above, (2 years old, Yearlings,
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETI'S.	24:8
HAMPDEN Co.	BancFJELD.

Bulls, Stags, &e., 800,)  $8,881; lbs. of Butter  sold, 21,595 ; value,
$7,558; lbs. of Cheese, 90,825 ; value, $17,161.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 55,533 ; value, $4,482. Pork, dressed, lbs., 69,408; value, $12,498. Veal, dressed, lbs., 83,902;  value, $3,729.
Cheese Factories, I ; lbs. of cheese m'd, 12,000 ; value, $2,400 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Swine, 164; value, $2,858 ; value of Poultry sold, $505 ; value of Eggs sold, $896 ; lbs. of Honey, l!i8 ; value, $82 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, $8,200.
Cloth  m'd  in  the  family,(el,)  yards,   50 ; value,   $100 ; value  of all other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, S60.
Card Boards m'd, 12,000 doz. pairs ; Bedsteads, 1,850 ; Whip Buts, 14,500   doz.;  value,  $7,725 ;  value  of   stock  used,  $2,700 ; cap.,
· $4,100 ; m. emp., 18.


BRIMFIELD.
Woollen Mills, I ; sets of machinery, I ; lbs. of scoured wool, 60,000 ; gross value of stock used, $60,000 ; yards aJl wool Tweeds m'd, 75,000 ; value, $75,000.
Mechanics' Tools m'd, and not elsewhere enumerated,  value,  $8,850 ; value  of   stock  used,  $1,000  ;.cap., $4,000;   hands  emp., 6.
Saddles,  Harnesses  and  Trunks,  establishments  for  m.  ot;  2 ; Har­
nesses m'd, 20 ; value, $750; value of stock used, $450; hands emp.,2. Brick   Yards,  1; bricks  m'd,  200,000;  value,  $1,600;   cap.,  $2,000 ;
hands emp., 4.
Distilleries, I ; bbls. Cider Brandy distilled, 24 ; value, $1,837 ; cap.,.
$500 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market, 450,000 ; valu
$8,858 ; Shingles prepared for market, 110,000; value,·$830 ; cap.,.
$4,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 2,144; value,   $10,589
Cbarooal, bush. m'd, 8,994 ; value, $400.
Farms, 206 ; acres, 20,275 ; value, including Buildings, $469,587; acres of land improved, 12,840 ; pe1'80ns emp., 245.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,170 Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,869. Woodland, acres, 2,396 ; value,  $70,665.
STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
:BarnFIELD.	HAMPDEN Co.

Indian Com, 11cres, 292; bush., 7,858; value, $11,037. Wheat, acres, Sf ; bush., 84:; value, $210.
Rye, acres, 37 ; bush., 872; value, $558.	..
Barley, acres, 381; bush., 705 ; value, $1,057.
Buckwheat, acres, 501 ; bush., 573 ; value, $697.
Oats, acres, 251; bush., 4,705 ; value, $3,529.
Potatoes, acres, 213; bush., 21,34:4 ; value, $12,806.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, l; bush., 341 ; value, $85.
Cabbage, acres, l; value, $120.
Tobacco, acres, l; lbs., 542 ; value, $185.
English  l\fowing, acres,  2,274 ; tons  of English bay, 1,997 ;  value,
$39,940.
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale  mown,  acres,  1,176;  tons  of  wet  meadow  or
swale hay, 985; value, $9,850.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,889 ; value of apples , $4,581; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  344 ; value  of  pears,  $143 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 38 ; value of  the fruit, $28.
Sheep, 796 ; value, $3,440 ; lbs. of Wool, 2,448;  value, $2,083.
Horses, 244 ; value, $22,935 ; Oxen over four years old, 213 ; Steere under four years old, 145; value of oxen  and steers,  $24,864 ; Milch Cows, 897 ; Heifers, 224 ; value of cows and heifers, $34,668; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (48 Bulls,) $1,020 ; gallons of Milk sold, 11,892 ; value, $1,494 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 20,940 ; value, $7,329 ; lbs. of Cheese, 64,165 ; value, $11,550.
Beef; dressed, lbs., U0,744 ; value, $12,666. Pork, dressed, lbs., 96,4:75; value, $16,679. Mutton, dressed, lbe., 1,902 ; value, $228.
Vea1, dressed, lbs., 40,194 ; value, $3,215.
Swine, 186 ; value, $2,856 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,261 ; value of Eggs sold, $672 ; lbs. of Honey, 469 ; value, $98 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 8 ; value, $3.60 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, (944 bbls. Cider,) $2,860.
Boxes, value m'd, $1,500 ; value of stock used, $750 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Hames m'd, value, $500; value of stock used, $150; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Wool Carding, lbs.3,500 for customers ; hands emp., 1.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	245
luxP»EN Co.	CBE8TEL


CHESTER.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 10,-000; cotton COD8nmed, )be., 15,000; gross value of.stock used, $12,000; lbs. of Yam m'd and not  made  into  cloth, 12,000 ; gross value, $18,000 ; cap.,.$6,000 ; m. emp., 8; f. emp., 10.	·
.Bleaching or Coloring Cotton Goods, lbs. of 'l'hread bleached or colored,
12,000 ; value  before  bleaching or coloring,  $16,000; value  after,
$20,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 11.
Master Bnilders, 4 ; Bnildiugs erected, 5 ; value, $8,800 ; value of the materials used, $2,800 ; hands emp., 3.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of  stock used, $800 ; value  of  work done,
$2,500 ; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. of Grain ground, 5,000 ; value, $9,100 ; cap.,
$4:,700;  hands  emp., 2.
Tanning Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $88,686.4:0 ; Hides tanned, 8,970 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Shoe Peg Manufactories, 1; pegs m'd, bush., 500 ; value, $500 ; cap.,
$800 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills,  7 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  480,000 ; value,
$5,410 ; Shingles prepared for market, 110,000 ; value, $880; cap.,
$4:,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Firewood  and  Bark prepared  for market, cords, 6,914: ; value, $31,118 ;
cap., $16,84:3 ; hands emp., 32.
Charooal, bush. prepared for market, 2,4:00 ; value, $280 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.	.
Farms, 187 ; acres, 20,581 ; value, including Bnildings, $288,875 ; acres improved, 9,622 ; persons emp., 164.
Unimproved Land, acres, 10,960. Unimprovable Land, acres, 3,104. Woodland, acres, 3,838;  value,  $89,079.
Indian Corn, acres, 108 ; buslL, 3,337 ; value, $5,084.
Wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 48; Taine, $96. Rye, acres, 13; bush., 177 ; value, $391, Barley, acres, 10; bush., 864: ; value, $564.
Buckwheat, acres, 20 ; bush., 845 ; value, $845.
Oata, acres, 4:9 ; bush., 1,061 ; value, $1,061. Herdsgrass Seed, acres, If ; bush., 21; value, $12. Potatoes, acree, 102; bush., 12,217 ; value, $6,178.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 4f ;bush., 2,011; value, $400. Carrots, acres, 884:; bush., 157.
246	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
CHICOPEE,	HAYPDEN  Co.

Beets and other eseulent vegetables, bush., 15 ; value, $11. Tobacco, acres, 41 ; lbs., 4,825 ; value, $908.
English Mowing, acres, 2,690 ; tons English hay, 2,060 ; value,  $30,900.
Wet  Meadow or  Swale  mown, acres, 160 ; tons wtlt meado)V or   swale
hay,  138;  value, $1,098.
Apple-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  8,769 ; value  of  apples,  $3,604;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 58 ; value of pears, $69 ; all other trees cultivated fo their fruit, 52 ; value  of  fruit, j73; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $425.
Merino  Sheep, of  difte' rent grades, 800 ; all other kinds  of  sheep,  900 ;
gross value of  all sheep, $7,300 ; lbs. of  Merino Wool, 2,600; value,
$2,340 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 3,150;  value, $2,520.
Horses, 180 ; value, $14,400 ; Oxen over four years old, 140; Steers under four years old, 143; value of oxen and steers, $19,918; Milch Cows, 343; Heifers, 107; value of cows and heifers, $14,618; value of 289 Neat Stock not embraced above, $4,849 ; gallons of Milk sold, 924 ; value, $237 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 9,126 ; value, $2,886 ; lbs. of Cheese, 6,045 ; value, $818.
Beef, dressed, lbs. 48,175; value, $8,854. Pork, dressed, lbs., 26,956 ; value, $4,852. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 880; value, $42.
Veal, dressed, lbs. 2,790 ; value, $257.
Swine, 100; value, $1,179 ; value of Poultry sold, $263 ; value of Eggs sold, $165 ; lbs. of Honey, 150 ; value, $37 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 10 ; value, $8.
Maple Sugar, lbs., 23,755 ; value, $4,344.
Bedsteads,' establishments for m. of, 1; bedsteads m'd, 3,240 ; value,
$9,626 ; value of stock used, $4,536 ; cap., $2,300 ; m. emp., 12.


CHICOPEE.

Cotton Mills, 7 ; spindles, 114,208 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 2,218,823 ; gross value of stock used, $2,207,065.21; yards of cotton Cloth m'd, 6,721,915!; gross value, $2,976,788.28 ; yards of cotton Flannel qi'd, 1,442,272! ; value, $761,263.06 ; cotton Quilts and Counterpanes m'd, 4,976 ; value, $20,813.52 ; cap., $2,120,000 ; m. emp., 411 ;·f. emp., 807.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 1; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 36,125 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 106,455 ; value, $80,097.40 ; cap., $14,000 ; m. emp., 14; f. emp., 9•

•
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF  M• ASSACHUSETTS . 	247
H.ucPDBN   Co.	CmcOPEL

Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, {malleable iron,) furna­ ces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $10,800 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 50 ; value, $26,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 40.	•
Lock Manufactories, 1, (just commenced busineea;) cap., $40,000 ; hands emp., 4:1.
Ploughs, and other Agricultural Implements, establishments for m. of, 2 ; ploughs m'd, 1,466; value, $8,430.91 ; other agricultural implements m'd, 858 Cultivaton, 4:,101 Hay Cutten, 1,152 C.Om Shellers, Scrub­ bers, and Harrows; value, $62,658.79 ; cap., $57,000 ; hands emp., 58.
Bl'&B8 Foundries, (belonging to the Ames C.Ompany,) 2 ; value of stock used, $120,000 ; articles m'd, Co.nnon,  Sword Trimmings,  and parts of   various  other  things ;  value,  {Machinery, $428,000,  Castings,
$18,500,  Swords  and  Plated  Ware,  $886,900,)  $833,4:00 ; cap.,
$250,000 ; hands emp., 400.
Printing done, value, $1,400 ; cap., $1,800 ; m. emp., 1; t·emp., 1. Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$1,040 ; daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,   7,800 ; value,
$2,080 ; cap , $800 ; m. emp., 2.
Hair Pins m'd, value,  $15,000 ; value of  stock used,	10,000 ; cap.,
$5,000 ; m. emp., 8; f. emp., 2.
Mattresses of all kinds and materials, manufactories of, 1; mattresses m'd, 52 ; value, $260 ; £ emp., 1,
Military  Goo4e and Equipments,  establishments  for  m.  of,   1; value  of
stock used, $218,157 ; articles m'd, 62,150 set Infantry and  83,800 set Cavalry Equipments, 8,870 Mail Bags ; value,  $400,000 ; cap.,
$75,000 ; m. emp., 200 ; £ emp., 50.
Upholstery Manufactories, 1; value m'd, $720 ; m. emp., 1.
Vehicles repaired, value, $15,700 ; hands emp., 15.
Umbrellas, Paraso]a, Elastics,  establishments  for m. of,  1; value m'd,
$5,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 4.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 4 ; yalue of stock used, $16,560 ; value of clothing m'd, $25,200 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 6; £ emp., 15.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of  stock used, $8,270.54 ; bbls•
. of aoft. soap m'd, 926;  value, $4,860.72; hands emp., 2.
Anne, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $269,680; small arms m'd, Smith's Breech Loading Qu-bines, 4,777, Maynard'•do. do. do.,  12,053;   value,  $404,445;  cap.,  $70,000 ; m. emp.,  250.
Tm Ware Manufactories, 4 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,500; bands emp., 8.
248	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
CarcOPEL	HAHPDEN Co.

Tamung and Cun-ying Establishments, 1; Hides tanned and curried, 1,900; value of Leather tanned and curried, $9,580 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Belting of all kinds and all materials for machinery, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $1,575 ; value m'd, $2,818 ; cap., $8,000 ;hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs  of all kinds m'd, 41,850 ;  Shoes,  pairs  of all  kinds  m'd,
427 ; gross value of stock used, $102,717.81; Taine oboots  and shoes m'd, $136,948.11; cap., $26,000; m. emp., 46.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 2,000,000 ; value, $20,000; cap., $8,000 ;
hands emp., 20.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,734.52 ; value of gas m'd, $10,614.26; cap., $85,000 1 hands emp., 4.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 2 ; tons preserved,
800 ; value,  $1,500 ; cap.,$1,100 ; hands emp., 8.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $10,000; value of Bread m'd, $15,500 ;
cap., $1,200 ; bands emp., 4.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 5,550 ; value, $1,000 ; hands emp.,
6.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; perch of stone quarried  and  prepared for market, .15,000 ; value, $3,000 ; cap., $1,000; bands emp., 5.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 750 ; value, $8,750. Com and other Brooms m'd, 21,800 ; value, $10,900 ; value of stock con­
sumed, $7,266; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 4.
Farms,  120;  acres, 8,658 ; value, including  Buildings,  $4,580 ; acres
improved, 3,049 ; persons emp., 200.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,600. Unimprovable Land, acres, 618. Woodland, acres, 1,527 ; value, $45,810.
Indian Com, acres, 485; bush., 18,200 ; value, $19,800.
Broom Corn, acres, 4 ; lbs, broom brush, 1,800 ; value, $440 ; bush. of broom  seed, 144 ; value, $72.
Wheat, acres, 20; bush., 459 ; value, $918. Rye, acres, 692 ; bush., 4,895 ; value, $7,842. Buckwheat, acres, 88 ; bush., 492 ; value, $615. Oats, acres, 196; bush., 3,707 ; value, $3,707.
Potatoes, acres, 228 ; bush., 20,270; value, $12,162.
Value  of  all other vegetables,  $11,941.
Tobacco, acres, 58; lbs., 108,836 ; value, $20,667.20.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,184 ; tons  of  English  bay,  1,707 ; value,
$51,210.

•
1865.]	,INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	249
luxPI>n  Co.	GRANVILLE.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 158 ; toua 0£ wet meadow or swale hay,  165;  value, $1,550.
Apple-trees cultivated for their Cruit, 16,176; value 0£ apples, $4,824 ; Pear-trees cultivated £or their fruit, 990; value 0£ pears, $495 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 500 ; value 0£ Cruit, $350.
Sheep, 80 ; value, $210 ; lbs. 0£ Wool produced, 120 ; value, $96.
Horses, 415 ; value, $41,500 ; Oxen over four years old, 46; Steers under foqr years old, 14 ; value of oxen aod steers, $5,362 ; Milch U>ws, 483 ; Heifers, . l2Q ; value of cows aod heifers, $26,550 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (Bulls, and other young stock,) $1,140; galloua of llilk sold, 96,600; value, $24,150 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 9,697 ; value, $8,879.
Beef, drellled, lbe., 645,505 ; value, $88,915.65. Pork, dressed, lbs., 13,500 ;_  value, $2,025.
MuttoDt dressed, lbs., 20,080 ; value, $8,204.80.
Veal, dreMed, lbs., 66,248 ; value, $5,299.84.
Swine, 100; value, $8,400; value of Poultry sold, $1,570 ; value of Eggs eold, $2,992; lbs. of Honey, 994 ; value, $2'8; lbs. of Beeswax, 24 ; value, $6 ; Beans, bash., 125 ; value, $851.
Floral Cultivatio11t value, $1,200.
Power Loom Hame8llee aod Power Loom Reeds, establishments for m. of, 8 ; harnesses and reeds m'd, sets, 2,987 ; value, $9,649 ; value of stock used, $5,099.50 ; cap., $9,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 10.


GRANVILLE.
Blacumith Shope, 2 ; Talue of stock used, $800 ; value 0£ work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Whip Manufactories (for laahes,) 2 ; value of stock used, $300; doz. whips m'd, 600 ; value, $1,000.
Distilleries, (Cider Brandy,) 2 ; bbls. 0£ all other liquors distilled, 88 ; value, $4,095; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Saw Milla, 12 ; Ceet 0£ Lumber  prepared  for market, 842,000 ; value,
$4,942 ; Shingles prepared for market, 105,000 ; value, $420 ; cap.,
$6,000 ; band.a  emp., 1O.
Firewood .aod Bark prepared for market, cords, 557 ; value, $1,709; bands emp., 20.
Farms, 221 ; acres, 22,680 ; value, including Buildings, $876,882 ; acres
of laod improTed, 6,872 ; persona emp., 294. Unimproved Land, acres, 9,270.
81
•
250	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
GRANVILLE.	1LufPDEN  Co.

Unimprovable Land, acres, 4,257.
Woodland, acres, 6,044 ; value, $57,210.
Indian  Com, acres, 210;  bush.,   6,504;  value, $9,204.
Wheat, acres, 4 ;bush., 70 ; value,  $140,
Rye, acres, 45 ; bush., 250 ; value, $680. Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 52; value, $52. Buck.wheat, acres, 67; bush., 918; value, $1,079. Oats, acres, 201; bush., 8,487 ; value, $3,118.
Potatoes, acres, 88; bush., 19,825 ; value,  $7,487.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field  crop, acres, 20 ; bush., 5,600 ; value,
$783.
Carrots, acres, 9 ; bush., 2,700; value, $1,350.
Tobacco, acres, 17; lbs., 27,200 ; value, $5,600.
English  Mowing,  acres, 1,978 ; tons of	nglish hay, 2,692 ; value,
$81,270.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,072; tons of wet meadow orswale hay, 720; value, $8,791.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 16,049 ; value.of apples, $11,670 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 300 ;value of pears, $300; value value  of Nuts or Berries  cultivated  or gathered  for  market, $725.
Sheep, 555 ; value, $2,468 ; lbs. of  Wool produced, 2,086 ; value,
$898.
Horses, 172 ; value, $15,990 ; Oxen over four years old, 172 ; Steen under fo'lll' years old, 78; value of oxen and steers, $17,011; Milch Cows, 676; Heifers, 212 ; value of cows and heifers, $29,070 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 28,105 ; value, $7,995 ; lbs. of Cheese, $84,975; value, $8,720.25.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 89,000 ; value, $3,656.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 48,650 ; value, $6,395.
Swine, 146; value, $2,157 ; value of Poultry sold, $225 ; value of Eggs sold, $316; lbs. of Honey, 450;. value, $100 ; value of wienu- merated articles of farm produce, $458. ·
Drum Shops, (military and  toy  drums,) 2;  drums  m'd,  5,500 ; value,
$27,500 ; doz. toy Cabs m'd, 2,000; value, $1,000; value of stock used, $12,500; cap., $8,000; m. emp., 40 ; £ emp., 8.
Hopples, gross m'd, 60 ; value, $600.
Powder Keg Shops, 8 ; kegs made, 9,900 ; value, $8,450 ; value of stock used, $675; cap., $800; m. emp., 4.	·
Screw Bung Shops, 1; bungs inade, 6,000; value, $800 ; value of stock used, $100 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.
W8ca,on Hubs,.sets m'd, 800; value, $500.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	251
HA.llPDEN  Co.	HOLLAND.


HOLLAND.

Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $50Q ; vRlue of work done,
$1,000 ; cap., $650 ; hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills,  8; bush.  of  Grain  ground,  2,500 ; value, $8,750;
cap., $900 ; hands emp., 3.
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of  lumber prepared for market, 165,000 ; value,
$1,650;  Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and  Staves  prepared  for mar­
ket, 200,000 ; v!'lue, $500 ; value of all other Lumber, (Timber,)
$150; cap., $1,830; hands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 401; value, $2,005 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 1,000 ; value,  $120.
F&l'ID8, 60; acres, 5,965 ; value, including Buildings, $86,105 ; acres of
land improved, 8,368 ; pereons emp, 84. Unimproved Land, acres, 826.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 662. Woodland,  acres,  1,132;    value, $18,112.
lnW4Ul Com, acres, 102 ; bush., 2,651; value, $4,639.
Rye, acres, 59 ; bush., 570; value, $1,140. Barley, acres, 4 ; bush., 64 ; value, $64. Buckwheat, acres, 4 ; bush., 80 ; value, $80. Oata, acres, 76; bush., 1,520 ; value, $1,216.
Clover-seed, acres, 2; buh., 11; value, $27.
Potatoes, acres, 55;  bush., 4,950 ; value, $2,970.
English Mowmg, acres, 588; tons  English hay, 556; value,  $11,120.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 497 ; tons wet meadow -or swale hay, 470;  value, $4,700.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 202 ; value of apples, $808. Sheep, 302 ; value, $1,208; lbs. of Wool produced, 906; value, $i25.
Horses, 63 ; value, $4,215; Oxen over four years old, 64 ; Steere under four years old, 90 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,967; Milch Cows, 146; Heifers, 75; value of cows and heifers, $7,840; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (13 Bulls,) $260 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 2,260 ; value, $904 ; lbs. of Cheese, 2,970 ; value, $445.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 8,000 ; value, $240.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 8,900 ; value, $585.
Swine, 42 ; value, $840 ; value of Poultry sold, $805 ; value of Eggs sold, $119 ; lbs. of Honey, 69 ; value, $21 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 20 ; value, $10; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, (80 bu.of Beans,) $200.
252	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
HOLYOKE.	HAMPDEN   Co.


HOLYOKE.
Cotton Mills,• (including one mill for manufacture of spool cotton,) 5; spindles, (including 17,088 spindles for manufacture of spool cotton,) 78,240 ; cotton consumed, (including 263,030 lbs. for spool cotton,) 1,275,582 ; groBB value of stock used, (including $438,732 for spool cotton,) $1,569,298 ; yards of cotton Cloth m'd, (Prints, Shirtings, Sheetings, Ginghams, Cottonades and Ticks,) 5,049,141 ; groBB value,
$1,567,208 ; cap., (excluding for m. of spool cotton,) $1,740,000 ;
. m. e91p., (excluding for m. of spool cotton,) 813 ; £ emp., (excluding for m. of spool cotton,) 632.
Spool Cotton, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, (this amount is included under cotton mills,) $488,732; spools of cotton m'd, 457,706 doz.; value, $503,476; cap., $600,000 ; m. emp., 120 ; £ emp.,  195.
Woollen Mills, (one new mill has run only six months,) 3; aets of machinery, 24 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 648,200; groe., value of  stock used, $1,240,500; yards of  Cassimere m'd,  488,225 ; value,
$876,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 1,000 ; value, $1,200 ; yards of Doeskin m'd, 860,000 ; value, $540,000 ; cap., $365,000 ; m. emp., 241 ; £ emp., 239.
Balmoral Skirts, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $240 ; skirts m'd, 80 ; value, $280 ; cap., (not established, experimenting ;)
m. emp.,' l.
Wire Manufactories, 2 ; value .of stock  used,  $177,000;  tons  of wire
m'd, 628; value, $354,000; cap., $162,000 ; hands emp., 66.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $18,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other caatings m'd,  850 ; value,  $88,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands  emp.,  15.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for m. of;  1; gross value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $50,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; hands·emp., 60.	·
Paper llanufactories, (one new mill has run only six months,) 4:; tons of stock consumed, 1,966; value, $4:91,655 ; reams of Writing paper m'd, 55,284 ; value, $150,000 ; tons Collars, Envelopes, and Writing Paper m'd, 1,078!; value, $760,468 ; cap., $290,000 ; m. emp., 98;
£ emp., 287.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $4:00;
newspapers printed, (Holyoke Transcript,) 1; issued weekly ; gross

•One m111, 18,43hp1Ddlea, bu not run for three yean.
1866.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	253
 	"	
liAHPDEN  Co.	HOLYOKE.
value, $600 ; cap., $400 ; value of all other printing done, $1,000 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 3; f. emp., 1.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establiahments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$900 ; ambrotypes and photographs taken, 10,700 ; value, $4,000;
·cap., $900 ; m. emp., 4.	·
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; harnesses m'd, 93, saddles, 11; value, $2,880 ; value of stock used, $060; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 3.
Upholstery Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; upholstery m'd, value, $800;  cap., $100;  m. emp,, 1,
Ink, Envelopes, and other  articles of Stationery,  manufactories  of, 1;
value  of stock used,  $25,000; envelopes m'd, 20,000,000 ; value,
$80,000 ; cap., $9,000 ; m. emp., 4;  £ emp., 18.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ;value of stock used, $7,835 ; value of clothing m'd, $12,075; cap., $5,130; m. emp., 6 ; £ emp., 5. Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of ,tock used, $4,988 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 2,400 ; value, $7,200; lbs. of ha.rd  soap m'd, 2,000 ;
value, $250 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 4;. Buildings erected, 24 ; value, $107,000; value of materials used, $71,300 ; hands emp., 82.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,000; value of work done,
$4,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 10.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $3,000 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 33,000; val'V!, $59,400 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 1,000 ; value, $11,000 ; tons of Plaater Stone or Gypsum ground, 175; value unground, $1,167 ; value ground, $1,750 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $13,237 ; Hides tanned, 1,890 ; bidee tanned and curried, 2,390 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $24,100; cap., $17,000 ; hands emp,, 8.
Belting of all kinds and all materials for machinery,  2 ; value  of stock
used, $6,500 ; value m'd, $9,400 ; cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 3.
Boota, pairs  of  all kinds  m'd, 420;  S pairs  of  all kinds  m'd, 60 ; gross value of 1tock used, ·$2,050 ; value of boot& and shoe& m'd, $8,590; cap., $1,150; m. emp., 4.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 2,600,000; value, $18,000 ; cap., $12,000 ;
bands emp. 1ix months, 50.
Planing Mills, 1; value of stock Uled, (for Dressing Lumber for building purposes,) included in the coet of the buildings ; value of all other work done, $750 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 6.
254	•	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
HOLYOKE.	HAMPDEN   Co.
Boxes, establishments for m. ot; 1; value of stock used, $1,550 ; value of wooden boxes made, $2,250 ; cap., $200; m. emp., 1.
Gas, establishments  for m. ot; 1; value of stock used,  $11,158 ;  gas
.m'd, 8,824,570 feet ; value, $18,240 ; cap., $20,000; hands emp., 3. Jee for market, establishments for preservation ot; 1; tons preserved,
250 ; val.ue, $850 ; cap., $850 ; hands emp., 2.
Stone Quarries, 1; value of Building stone quarried and prepared for market, $4,800 ; eap., $500 ; hands emp., 15.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,500 ; value, $9,000 ;
cap., $8,500 ; hands crop. four months, 7.
Farms, 141; acres, 6,115; value, including Buildings, $878,174 ; acres
improved, 5,104 ; persons emp., 191. Unimproved Land, acres, 955.
Unimprovable Land, 56.
Woodland, acres, 2,237 ; value, $37,301.
Indian Com, acres, 254 ; bush., 6,772; value, $18,544. Wheat, acres, 17 ; bush., 816; value, $869.
Rye, acres, 225 ; bush., 2,926 ; value, $5,418. Barley, acres, 1; bush., 10 ; value, $15, Buckwheat, acres, 13; bush ., 221; value, $221. Oats, acres, 93; bush., 1,764 ; value, $1,764.
Potatoes, acres, 198 ; bush., 14,201;  value, $10,650.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 80; bush., 6,885 ; value, $1,877. Onions, acres, ll ; bush., 200; value, $400.
Carrots, ac.es, l ; bush., 25 ; value, $12.
Cabbage, acres, 61; value, $1,166. Winter Squash, acres, l ; value, $45.
Market Gardening, acres, 2 ; value of products, $150. Tobacco, aere11, 44 ; lbs. 88,250 ; value, $16,162.
English Mowing, acres 1,237 ; tons English hay, 1,387 ; value, $48,545. Wet Meadow  or  Swale mown, 142 ; tons wet  meadow or swale hay,
147 ; value, $3,675.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,063; value of apples, $1,676; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 898; value of pears, $14; all other q-ees cultivated for their fruit, (Cherries,) 230 ; value of fruit,
$20;  value of  Nuts  or  Berries  cultivated   or  gathered   for    market,
$45.	.
Sheep, 145 ; value, $781; lbs. of Wool produced, 521; value,  $519.
Horses,  287 ; value,  $32,860;  Oxen over  four years old, 56 ; Steen
under four years old, 18 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,840; Milch
1865.]	IDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSET•TS.
255

HAXPDEN   Co.	LONGJIEADOW.
Cows, 871; Heifers, 58 ; value of cows and heifers, $17,894; gallons of Milk sold, 88,174; value, $6,647 ; lbe. of Butter sold, $1-8,602; value, $5,454 ; lbe. of Cheese, 200 ; value, $40.
Beef, dreMed, lbs., 85,450 ; value, $8,910. Pork, dreMed, lbe., 42,860; value, $7,017. Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,655 ; value, $978.
Swine, 188; value, $1,921 ; value of Poultry sold, $487 ; value of Eggs sold, $990; lbs. of Honey, 510; value,  $158.
Millinery  and  Dress  Malting  Establishments,  4;  value  of  stock  used,
$6,400; value m'd, $9,600 ; cap., $3,700; £ emp., 11.
Power Loom Reed Manufactory, 1; value of stock 1186d, $600 ; reeds m'd, 1,841;  value, $2,066;  cap., $1,200;  hands emp. 1.
Power Loom Harnesses, establishments for·m. o( 1; power loom har­ nesses m'd, sets, 2,182 ; value, $3,818; value of stock used, $2,486; cap., $500 ; f. emp., 8.


LONGMEADOW.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done,
$1,000; cap., $300 ; bands emp., 2.
Arms,  establishments  for  m.  o(  1; small arms  m'd, 3,330; value,
$40,000 ; cap., $5,000; m. emp., 25.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 1,000,000; value, $8,000; cap., $5,000 ;
hands emp., 18.	•
Shad taken, 6,000 ; value, $1,400; bands emp. for two months, 10.
Stone Quarries, 5;.value of building stone quarried and prepared for market, $26,000 ; cap., $9,000 ; bands emp.,  80.
Saw  Mills,  1; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  88,431; value
$8,420.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,978 ; value, $14,204 ; hands emp., 9.
Com•d other Brooms m'd, 400 ; value, $168 _value of stock con­ sumed, $124.
Farms, 201; acres, 14,258; value, including Buildings, $785,958;  acres
of land improved, 8,189 ; pe1'80DB emp., 220. Unimproved Land, acres, 3,809.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 440. Woodland, acres, 1,870 ; value, $77,380.
Indian Corn, acres, 589 ; bush., 18,285 ; value, $12,852.
256	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
LONGJlliDOW.	lullPDEN  Co.

Broom Corn, acres, 1; lbe. of broom  brush,  400 ; value, $124; bush. of broom seed,	value, $80.
Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 8; value, $16.
Rye, acres, 429 ; bush., 5,212; value, $7,817. Buckwheat, acres, 50 ; bush., 601; value, $601. Oats, acres, 295 ; bush., 5,804 ; value, $4,643.
Potatoes, acres, 144 ; bush., 14,408; value, $10,806.
Turnips coltivated as a field crop, acres, 5; bush., 2,620 ; value, $358. Carrots, bush., 30 ; value, $15.
Cabbage, acres, l; value, $184.
Winter  Squash, acres, t ; value, $75.	"'
Tobacco, acres, 83; lbe., 129,550 ; value, $26,162.
English  }lowing,  acres,  1;689 ;  tona  of   Eoglieh   bay,  1,585 ;  value,
$88,600.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 609 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 523 ; value, $6,567.
Apple-trees coltivated for their froit, 5,348 ; value of apples, $2,862 ; Pear-trees coltivated for their froit, 214 ; value of pears, $82; all other trees  coltivated  for  their  froit, 18 ; value  of  fruit, $9,
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 18 ; all other kinds of sheep, 289 ; gross value of all sheep, $1,490; lbs. of Merino Wool produced, 26; value, $13 ; lbe. of all other wool produed, 955 ; value, $523.
Horses, 313; value, $26,865 ; Oxen over four years old, 90 ; Steers under four years old, 8 ; value of oxen and steers, $10,787 ; Milch . Cows, 532; Heifers, 166; value of cows and heifers, $23,238; value of Neat Stock not embraced  above, {14,)  $358;  gallons  of  Milk sold, 31,328; value, $5,543; lbs. Butter sold, 18,830; value, $6,008.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 88,735; value, $8,572. Pork, dressed, lbs., 24,008 ; value, $4,820. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 845 ; value, $102. Veal, dressed, lbs., 18,325 ; value,   $1,510.
Swine, 259 ; value, $3,189 ; value of Pooltry sold, $718; value of Eggs sold, $972 ; lbs. of Honey, 189; value, $45 ; lbe. of	wax,
o ;value, $2.
Spectacle and Thimble Manofactories, 1; spectacles m'd, 1,500; thim­ bles  m'd,  4,800;  value  of  spectacles and thimbles,  $3,000 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; bands emp., 3.	·
t
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	257
IIAHPDEN   Co.	LUDLOW.


LUDLOW.

Cotton Mills, 2 ; spindles, 8,840 ; bales cotton consumed, 600 ; yards Cloth m'd, 907,200 ;' bales Pelisae Wadding m'd, 1,000 ;· m. emp.,34 ;
£ emp., 36.
Linen, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $225,000 ; value of goods m'd, $285,000 ; m. emp., 60 ; £ emp., 100.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $200 ; value  of work done,
$1,100 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Snuff, Tobacco, and Cigars, value m'd, $600 ; value of stock used, $200; cap., $200 ; 'In. emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; coffins made, 20·; value, $150 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.	.
Planing Mills and Establishments  for m. of  Sashes, Doore, and   Blinds,
1; value  of  stock  used,  $500 ; value  of B88hee,  doors, and  blinds m'd,
$700 ; value of all other work done, $800 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 8; feet of Lumber  prepared for market, 100,000 ; value,
$18,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 100,000 ; value, $300 ; cap., $5,000 ; bands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 2,861;  value, $16,540   ;
cap., $5,500 ; hands emp., 38.
Com and other Brooms m'd, 500 ; value, $100 ; value of stock consumed,
$75 ; cap., $75 ; bands emp. three months, 1.
Farms, 175; acres, 15,883; value, including Buildings, $407,250; acres improved, 7,891; persons emp., 225.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,464. Unimprovable Land, acres, 700. Wood1and, acres, 1,771 ; value,  $56,625.
Indian Corn, acres, 565 ; bush., 11,912; value, $11,912. Rye, acres, 689 ; bush., 5,324 ; value, $5,324.
Buckwheat, acres, 40 ; bush., 400 ; value, $300. Oats, acres, 190 ; bush., 8,884 ; value, $2,500.80. Pofatoes, acres, 224 ; bush., 11,200 ; value, $5,600.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 20; bush., 2,000; value, $400. Tobacco, acres, 11 ; lbs., 16,100 ; value, $2,415.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,178; tons  of  English hay, 1,890 ; value,
$27,8.00.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 626; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 597 ; value, $4,776.
81
258	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
MONSON,	HAHPDEN   Co.

Apple-trees cultivated for  their fruit,  1,950 ; value  of apples, $1,560 ;
value  of  Nuts or Berries  cultivated  or gathered  for market,  $172.
Sheep, 460 ; value, $2,760 ; lbs. Wool produced, 1,380 ; value, $690.
Horses, 214 ; value, $17,120 ; Oxen over four years old, 110; Steers under four years old, 126; value of oxen and steers, $14,150 ; Milch Cows, 424 ; Heifers, 142 ; value of cows and heifers, $20,040; lbs. of Butter  sold,  21,875;  value,  $8,750 ; lbs. of  Cheese,  1,150; value,
$195.50.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 7,200 ; value, $720.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 74,400;  value,  $11,160.
Swine, 266 ; value, $2,660 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,121 ; value of Eggs sold, $910.


MONSON.

Woollen ·Mills, 6 ; sets of machinery, 14 ; lbs. of Scoured  Wool  con­ SUJDed, 370,000 ; gross value of stock used, $155,000 ; yards of Sati­ net  m'd,  1;155,000 ;  value,  $693,000.
Shoddy, establishments  for m. of, 1; value of  stock used,  $2,000;   cap.,
$800 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 3.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $4,500 ; lbs. of tallow candles made, 8,000 ; value, $5,200 ;· cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 1.
Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 12 ; value, $20,000 ; value of materials used, $14,000 ; bands emp., 12.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of work done,
$2,500; cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 8.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of Chairs, Cabinet Ware, and Coffins m'd, $650 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value m'd,
$1,500; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 4 ; bush.  Grain  ground,  8,000 ; value,  $12,000 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; bands emp., 4.
Currying Establishments, 2 ; Hides curried, 12,000 ; value of Leather curried, $60,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 16.·
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 100;  Shoes, pairs  of all  kinds  m'd,  75 ;
gross  value  of  stock  used,  $100 ; value  of boots  and  ehoes m'd,
$650; cap., $800 ; m. emp.,2.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value  of stock
used, $284,782 ; straw bonnets m'd, 87,500 ; value, $161,548; straw
. .
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	259
HAMPDEN   Co.	MONSON,

bats m'd,  128,550 ; value,  $160,687 ; cap., $25,000; m. emp., 95 ;
£ emp., 650.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, 1 ; value of stock used, $9,000 ; hoods m'd, 5,000 ; value, $18,000; cap.,$2,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; £ emp., 9.
Snwf, Tobacco, and Cigars m'd, value, $10,000 ; value of stock used,
$5,400; cap., $3,000; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $8,000 ; cap., $1;500 ; m. emp., 8.
Ice for market, eetabliabments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved, 6'h value, $500 ; cap.,$200 ; bands emp., 1.
Distilleries, 1; value of stock used,  $225 ; bbl& of Liquors distilled,
6l ; value, $600 ; cap., $100 ; bands emp., 1.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $20,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; bands emp., 40.
Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of lumber prepared  for market, 248,000 ; value,
$4,860 ; Shingles  prepared  for  marke · .00,000;  value,  $1,200 ;
cap., $2,500 ; bands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 8,168 ; value, $9,504 ;
cap., $3,168 ; bands  emp.', 30.
Cbarooal  m'd, bush.,  11,550;  value,  $1,886 ;  cap., $448; bands emp., 5.
}'arms,   217 ; acres,   19,650 ;  value,   including   Buildings,   $410,100 ;
acres improved, 11,188 ; persons emp., 825. ·
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,000. Unimpnivable Land, acres, 1,595. Woodland, acres, 2,817 ; value, $92,480.
Indian Corn, acres, 881; bush., 8,740 ; value, $18,112.
Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 23; value, $46.
TJ.ye, acres, 78; bush., 897 ; value, $1,849. Buckwheat, acres, 67 ; bush., 888 ; value, $888. Oats, acres, 290; bush., 8,791; value, $3,412,
All other Grain crops, acres, 1; bush., 50 ; value, $50.
Clover  Seed, value, $80.
Potatoes, acres, 224 ; bush., 28,251; value, $14,175,
Turnips cultivated u a field crop, acres, 80 ; bush., 6,052; value, $907.
Onions, acres, 1; bush., 175 ; value, $850. Carrots, acres, 7 ; bush., 2,059 ; value, $1,0'3, Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $111,
Wm'
ter Squash, acres, i ; value, $114.50.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 1; value, $186.50.
Tobeceo, acres, 2l;  lbs.,  2,400 ; value, $720.	---
260	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1866.   ·•
MONTGOllERY.	lli.HPDEM  Co.

English  Mowing,  acres,  2,101;  tons  of English  hay,  2,285 ; value,
$38,111.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 722; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 533 ; value, $4,639.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,442 ; value of. apples, $5,941 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 186; value of pears, $231; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 75 ; value of fruit, $150; value  of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $175.
Sheep, 665 ; value, $2,622 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 2,002 ; value; $1,009. Horses, 436 ; value, $25,4:30 ; Oxen over four years old, 834 ; Steers under foul' years old, 191 ; value of oxen and steers,$31,560 ; Milch C.Ows, 600;  Heifers, 181; value of  cows and heifers, $22,026; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above,  (Bulls and  Stags,)  $600 ; gallons of Milk sold, 20,772; value, $3,695 ; lbs. of  Butter  sold,  14,265;  value,   $7,470;  lbs. of  Cheese, 8,010 ; value,  $1,640.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 104,208; value, $16,776. Pork, dressed, lbs., 98,783 ; value, $15,117. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,410 ; value, $370.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 8,252 ; value, $391.
Swine, 34:3 ; value, $3,249 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,550; value of Eggs sold, $580 ; lbs. of Honey, 145 ; value, $85 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 10 ; value,  $4 ; value  of unenumerated  articles  of Farm  Produce,
$300.
Plough Handles m'd, doz., 20,000 ; value, $4,000; Shovel Handles, doz., 5,000;  value, $3,750.


MONTGOMERY.

Saw 1\fills, 2; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 15,000; value, $400.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,593 ; value, $10,478 ; cap., $6,260 ; hands emp., 85.
Farms, 62 ; acres, 8,657 ; value, including Buildings, $128,555 ; acres
improved, 1,843;  persons emp., 85.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,603. Unimprovabl., Land, acres, 1,482. Woodland, acres, 1,229 ; Yalue, $29,855.
Indian C.Orn, acres, 67 ; bnsh., 2,041 ; value, $3,170. Rye, acres, 31; bush., 293; value, $455.
Barley, acres, 5 ; bush., 80; value, $111.
:Buckwheat, acres, 18 ; bush., 215 ; value, $215.
18.]	INDUSTRY  OF  .MASSACHUSETIS. 	261
H.urPDBN Co.	PALMER.
Oats, acres, 88 ; bush., 900 ; value, $897.
Potatoes, acres, 82; bush., 8,571 ; value, $1,778. Tobacoo, acres, 9 ; lbs., 12,700; value, $2,580.
English Mowing, acres, 824 ; toos of F..nglisb bay, 789 ; value, $14,790.	•
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 178 ; toos of wet meadow or swale bay,  158 ;  value,  $1,865.  ,
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,811; value of apples, $855 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit.,  15 ; value of pears, $10.
Sheep, 460 ; value,  $1,878;  lbs. of Wool,  1,488;  value, $950.
Horses, 62 ; value, $5,200 ; Oxen over four years old, 72 ; Steers under four years old, 59 ; value of oxen and steers, $9,740 ; Milch Cows, 166; Heifere, 24 ; value, $7,565 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (184 und.er two years old,) $2,686; lbs. of Butter eold, 11,845 ; value, $2,966 ; lbs. of Cheese, 800; value, $60.'
Beef, dressed, lbs., 19,125; value, $1,492. Pork, dressed, lbs., 20,810 ; value, $4,188. Veal, dressed, lbs., 400;  value, $40.
Swine, 52; value, $878 ; value of Poultry sold, $85 ;, value of Eggs eold, $74 ; lbs. of Honey, 75; value, $15.


PALMER.
Cotton Mills, 8 ; spindles, 40,128; cotton consumed, lbs., 629,117 ; gross value of stock used, $770,968.72 ; yards of cotton Cloth m'd,  (Den­ ims, Sheetings, Drillings, Tickings, Stripes, U. S. Army Docks,) 2,584,589 ; gross vain!;!, $907,105.96 ; lbs. of Yam m'd and not made into cloth, 6,000 ; gross  value,  $8,600 ; cap.,  $800,000 ; m.  emp., 165  ;  f.emp., 246.
Woollen Mills, 1; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 1,000 ; gross value of stock used, $900 ; lbs. of woollen Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 850;  value,  $1,150 ; m. emp., 1.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 4();  value, $4,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Scythe Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $4,890 ; doz. of Scythes m'd, 1,087 ; value, $11,957 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Printing  and  Newspaper   Establishments,  1;  value  of  stock   used,.
$1,200 ; newspapel'8 printed, (News Letter, Ware Standard, Palmer· Journal,) 8, weekly ; gross value, $2,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; value of alf other printing done, $1,200 ; m. emp., 4.
262	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
PALMER.	HAJlPDEN  Co.

Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; harnesses m'd, 30 ; value, $950 ; value of stock used, $450 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2•
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons,  Sleighs,  and  other   vehicles,
establishments for m. of, 2 ; wagons m'd, 25, sleighs, 6 ;value, $3,175;
value of  stock used,  $750; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Clothing,   establishments   for  m.  of,'   4 ; 'lalue  of  stock  used,   $6,200 ;
value of clothing m'd, $12,600 ; cap.,$3,600; m. emp., 10 ; f. emp.,14. Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of articles from, 1 ; value  of stock used,  $1,000; value  of Monuments and Tomb­
stones m'd, $2,500; cap., $500; hands emp., 2.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 850; value, $1,750; cap., _$600; hands emp., 3.
Master Builders, 8; Buildings erected, 6 ; value, $8,100 ; value of materials used, $5,400 ; hands emp., 10.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,250 ; value of work done,
$8,600;  cap., $1,750; hands emp., 6.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value . of chairs and cabinet wlre m'd, $350 ; cap., $550; hands emp., 1.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of tin ware m'd, $2,500 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Medicines, establishments for m. of,  2 ; value  of stock used,  $2,800;
value of m•edicines m'd, $5,000;  cap., $1,800 ; m. emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $26,000 ; Hides curried, 5,280; value of Leather tanned and curried, "$37,914; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 11.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 875; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 94; gross  value  of stock  used,  $1,545 ; value  of boots  and  shoes m'd,
$3,075; cap., $1,025 ; m. emp., 5.
Cigi!l'S m'd, value, $2,000; value of stock used,  $1,000 ; cap., $1,5001
m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1.
Coffin ManufactQries, 1; value of stock used, $75 ; coffins made, 25 ;
value, $150 ; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments  for  preservation  of, 1; tons preserved,
100;  value, $500 ; cap., $150;  hands emp., 1.
Sa.w Mills,  4; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  775,000 ; value,
$12,985; Shingles, 125,000 ; value, $875; cap., $8,200 ; hands · emp., 7.	·
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,956 ; value, $13,720.
Farms, 190 ; acres, 15,298; value, including Buildings, $381,825 ; acres improved, 8,493; persons emp., 219.
186".]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	263
II.ucPDE1'1'   Co.	PALMER.

Unimproved Land, acres, 6,183. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,825. Woodland, acres, 2,420 ; value, $75,551.
Indian Corn, acres, 404; bush., 9,278 ; value, $11,301.
Wheat, acres, 2f ; bush., 45 ; value, $185. Rye, acres, 185; bush., 1,568 ; value, $2,100. Barley, acres, l; bush., 8 ; value, $8.
Buckwheat, acres, 55 ; bush., 849 ; value,  $270.
Oata, acres, 292 ; bush., 5,246 ; value, $5,246. Herdsgrasa Seed, acres, l; bush., i; value, $8. Potatoes, acres, 201; bush., 18,841; value, $7,48.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5; bush., 875; value, $75.
OnioDB, acres, i; bush., 60 ; value, $120.
Market Gardening, acres, Sf ; value of products, $225.
Tobacco, acres, 221; lbs., 19,890 ; value, $2,716.
English Mowing, acres, 1,975; toDB of English hay, 1,474; value, $2,719.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 527 ; toDB wet meadow or swalc hay, 466 ; value, $4,660.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,300 ; value of apples, $1,150 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 111; value  of  pears,  $225; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $25.
Merino Sheep, of different gradet1, 888 ; all other  kinds of sheep, 784 ;
gross 'f'alue of all sheep, $4,296 ; lbs. Merino Wool, l,686 ; value,
$1,393;  lbe. of  all other wool produced, 2,467;  value, $2,016.
Horses, 228 ; value, $18,868 ; Oxen over klur years old, 144; Steers under four years old, 184; value of oxen and steers, $15,781; Milch Cows, 460 ; Heifers, 168 ; value of cows and heifers, $22,688 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above,, (46 Colts and Bulls,) $1,008 ; galloDB of Milk sold, 10,495 ; value, $2,205 ; Iba. of Butter sold, 16,969; value, $5,847; Iba. of Cheese, 6,810; value, $1,025.
Beef, dressed, lbe. sold, 51,418 ; value, $5,141.	·
Pork, dressed, lbe., 13,155 ; value, $1,972. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,440; value, $817. Veal, dressed, lbs. sold, 9,670; value, $967.
Swine, 247 ; value, $8,344; value of Poultry sold, $771 ; value of Eggs sold, $814; lbe. of Honey, 275 ; value, $67 ; Field Beans,  bush.,
162 ; value, $498.
Chums and Reeds, establishmenta for m. of; 2; value m'd, $2,600 ;
value of stock used, $1,225 ; cap., $2,200; m. emp., 2.
Carriage Repair Shop, 1; value of repairs, $500 ; value of.stock used,
$100 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 7.
264	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
RUSSELL.	HAMPDEN    Co.


RUSSELL.

Paper  Manufactories, tons  of stock consumed,  400 ; value, $112,000 ;
.reams of writing paper m'd, 40,000; value, $165,000; cap., $50,00 ; m. emp., 25 ; t emp., 45.
Flouring Mills, (common grist mill,) 1; bush. grain ground, 9,600 ; value, $14,000;  cap., $1,000;  hands einp., 1.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $20,000; Hides tanned, 8,000 ; value of leather tanned and curried, $38,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Saw  Mills,  8; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market, 214,000; value,
$2,290 ; value of all other Lumber, (1,200 Railroad Sleepers,) $588 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,159 ; value, $9,849; cap., $5,474 ; hands emp., 88.
Farms, 72; acres, 9,138; value, including Buildings, $166,284 ; acres of land improved, 8,638; persons emp., 119.
Unimproved Land, acre.s, 2,154. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,146. Woodland, acres, 2,210 ; value, $41,905.
Indian Col"ri, acres, 58!; bush., 1,688 ; value, $2,455. Rye, acres, 14!; bush., 191;  value, $290.
Buckwheat, acres, 8; bush., 70 ; value, $70. Oats, acres, 10 ; bush., 196 ; value, $196.
Potatoes, acres, 45 ; bush., 8,945 ; value, $1,978. Tobacco, acres, 15   ; lbs., 16,895 ; value, $3,110.
English   Mowing,   acres,  787 ; tons  of  English   bay,  795;    value,
$15,510.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,239 ; value of apples, $1,292 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 24; value of  pears,  $50 ; all other trees cultivated for their  fruit, 25; value,  39 ; value  of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $6.
Sheep, 251 ; value $1,300; lbs. of Wool, 704 ; value, $481.
Horses, 70 ; value, $5,990 ; Oxen over four years old, 56 ;  Steers under four years old, 46 ; value of oxen and l'teers, $5,255; Milch Cows, 161; Heifers, 44; value of  cows  and  heifers,  $8,005 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (56 Yearlings and Calves,) $740; gallons of l\filk sold, 1,608 ; value, $387 ; lbs. Butter sold, 4,690 ; value, $1,704 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,700; value,  $304.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 49,465 ; value, $2,977. Pork, dressed, lbs., 18,320 ; value, $3,800.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	265
HA.11Pou  Co.	SOUTHWICK,

Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,550; value, $171. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,920 ; value, $292.
Swine, 70 ; value, $938; value of Poultry sold, $126 ; value of Eggs sold,  $171 ; lbs.  Honey,  237;  value, $71.
Fishing Tackle, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value m'd, $3,000 ; hands emp., 2.


SOUTHWICK.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $400 ; l"alue of work done,
$1,500 ; cap., $600;  bands emp., 2.
Powder Mills, 1; value of stock used, $9,680; lbs. of powder m'd, 77,700 ; value, $13,986 ; cap., $4,000; hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 14,000; value, $21,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $4,000; Hides tanned, 2,000 ; cap., $4,500;  hands emp., 2.
nuff, Tobacco, and  Cigars  m'd,  value,  $8,700; l"alue  of stock used,
$4,165;  cap., $5,955; m. emp., 8; £ emp., 12.
Whip Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $350 ; dozens of whips m'd, 1,200; value, $1,200;  cap., $400.
Distilleries, 3 ; value of stock used, $515; bbls. of Alcohol distilled,
.14 ; value, $1,575; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 3.
Saw Mills, 4;  feet  of Lumber prepared for market, 250,000 ; value
$5,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 145,000; value, $485; cap., $8,750 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,123; value, $12,492 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Farms, 145; acres, 17,991; value, including Buildings, $447,560 ; acres
. improl"ed, 9,249; persons emp., 297. Unimproved  Land, acres, 4,984.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 908. Woodland, acres, 2,900; l"alue, $14,500.
Indian Corn, acres, 350; bush., 6,826 ; value, $10,289.
Wheat, acres, 6 ; bush., 110 ; value, $220.
Rye, acres, 408; bush., 3,171; value, $4,756.50. Buckwheat, acres, 347; bush., 4,011; value, $4,011. Oats, acres, 137 ; bush., 2,545 ; value, $2,545.
Potatoes, acres, 174 ; bush., 12,420 ; value, $9,315.
Turnips, cultivated as a field crop, 89; bush., 17,800 ; value, $3,560.
8'
266	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
SPRINGFIEL.	HAVPDEN   Co.

Onions, acres,    ; bush., 100 ; value, $200. Tobacco, acres, 153; lbs., 239,619 ; value, $48,000. Cranberries, acres, 4 ; bush., 6 ; value, $80.
English  Mowing, acres, 1,287 ; tons of English  hay, 1,193 ; value,
$85,790.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 672 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 616; value, $9,240.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,763; value of apples, $2,866 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 858 ; value of fruit, $225 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $255.
Sheep, 539 ; value, $2,695; lbs. of Wool produced,  1,957 ; value,
$1,565.
Horses, 222 ; value, $16,650 ; Oxen over four years old, 170; Steers under four years old, 128; ·value of oxen and steers, $20,500; Milch Cows, 419 ; Heifers, 115; value of cows and heifers, $19,060 ; gal­ lons of Milk sold, 321; value, $65 ; lbs. of  Butter  sold,  17,572 ; value, $5,275 ; lbs. of Cheese, 2,460 ; value, $492.    ·
Beef, dressed, lbs., 82,934 ; value, $3,990. Pork, dressed, lbs., 64,847 ; value, $10,375. Veal, dressed, lbs., 575; value, $57.50.
Swine, 183; value, $3,500; value of  Poultry sold,  $1,196;· value of  Eggs sold, $1,647 ; lbs. of Honey, 2,425 ; value, $634 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax,  63;  value, $81.


SPRINGFIELD.
Cotton Mills, 2; spindles, 39,000 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 850,000 ; gross value of stock used, $763,794 ; yards of cotton Cloth m'd, (Sheetings, Shi, and Jeans,) 3,026,991 ; gross value, $950,000; cap., $650,000 ; m. emp., 100 ; f. emp., 250.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 3 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed,· 120,000; gross value of stock used, $106,000; yards of Flannel m'd, 200,000; value, $140,000 ; cap., $60,000; m. emp., 26 ; f. emp., 14.
Hosiery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; dozens of Stockings m'd, 200 ; value, $1,000; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 8.	·
Balmoral Skirts, establishmentsfor m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; skirts m'd, 4,000 ;value, $10,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; f. emp., 6. Mechanics' Tools m'd and not elsewhere enumerated, value, $137,754 ;
value of  stock used, $31,059 ; cap., $101,400 ; hands emp., 105.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	267
luKPDD  Co,	SPRINGFIELD,

Forges, 1; value of stock used, $15,000; tons of Bar Iron, .Anchors, Chain Cables, and  other  articles  of wrought  iron  m'd,  800; value,
$.50,000; cap., $16,000 ; hands emp, 10.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used, $178,000 ; tons of hollow  ware  and  other  cast­ ings m'd, 2,040;  value,  $208,800 ; cap., $39,000;  hands  emp.,  49.
Machine and Hand Cards of all kinds, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock Wied, $15,000; hand cll.rds m'd, 24,000 ; value, $2,000 ; feet of machine cards m'd, 8,400 ; value, $17,200 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 8.
Locomotives,  Steam  Engines, and  Boilers,•establishments for m. of, 2 ;
number built, 2 ; value, $40,000 ; hands emp., 350.
Nuts  and  Screws, establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value  of stock used,
$1,000 ; gross of nuts and  l!Cl'8WB   m'd,  2,500; value,  $7,000 ; cap.,
$5,000; hands emp., 8•
.Lock Manufactoriee, 2 t; value of stock used $4,000; locks m'd, 3,000 ; value,  $6,000;  cap., $1,500 ; hands  emp., 25.
O>pper Manufactoriee, 1; value of stock used, $40,800 ; Kettles, Pipe, &e., m'd, lbs., 84,000; value, $57,600 ; cap., $8,600 ; hands emp.,12. Bra88 Foundries, 1; value of stock used, $57,000 ; value of Gauges,
Water Cocks,   ' m'd, $75,000; cap., $35,000 ; bands emp., 20.
Button Manufactoriee, 2 ; value of stock used, $65,000 ; gross of metal buttons m'd, 4,000; value, $4,400 ; gross of covered buttons m'd, 50,000; value, $82,000 ; gross of vegetable ivory buttons m'd, 70,500 ; value, $104,750 ; cap., $26,000; m. emp., 22 ; £ emp., 58.
Paper Collars for ladies and gentlemen, manufactori of, 2 ; value of stock used,  $45,463 ; collars m'd, 5,201,780;  value,  $68,026 ; cap.,
$18,000; m. emp., 4; f. emp., 27.
Printing  and  Newspaper  Establishments,  4 ;  value  of   stock  used,
$67,280 ; newspapers printed, (Republican, and Union,) 2 ; issued daily and weekly ; gross value, $91,950; cap., $45,000 ; value of all other printing done, $58,209 ; cap., $19,500; m. emp., 49 ; £ emp., 12.
Bookbinderies, 2 ;value of stock used, $22,000 ; value of bookbinding done, $37,500 ; cap., $11,500 ; m. emp., 16; £ emp., 21.
Book-publishing Establishments, 1; boob published, 25,000 ; value,
exclusive of the coet of printing and binding, $25,000; cap.,  $10,000;
m. emp., 1.	·

•W. R. R. and Coonectlcat R. R. corporation,,manaf'actaring and repairing done under one bead ; cannot 1eperate item•, mottly repairing.
t Onejult gone Into operation.
268	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.

SPRINGFIELD.	H.&.HPDEN Co.

Dagnerreian and Photographic Establishments, 5 ; value of stock used,
$21,500 ; daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,  75,600 ; value,
$47,340 ; cap., $24,800 ; m. emp., 2'; £ emp., 8.
Looking-Glasses and Picture Frames, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,200 ; articles m'd, 9,200 ; value, $12,250 ; cap., $5,500 ; hands emp., 6.
Gold and Silver Ware, and Jewelry, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $138,000 ; articles m'd, 400 doz. Spectacles, 8,000 doz. Thimbles, 7,500 Watch Chains ; value, $212,500 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 38 ; £  emp., 15.
Saddles, Harnesses, and  Trunks,  establishments for  m. of, 4 ; 88Aldlea
m'd, 1,000, harnesses, 800, trunks, 500 ; value, $41,185; value of stock used, $21,625; cap., $19,000 ; bands emp., 67.
Military Goods. and Equipments, establishments for  m.  of,  2 ; value of
stock used, $450,000 ; value of Cartridge Boxes, Cartridge Box Belts, Waist Belts,  Cap Pouches,  Saddles, Bridles,  Harnesses, &c.,
$600,000 .; cap., $45,000 ; m. emp., 245 ; £ emp."180.
Upholstery Manufact.ories, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,500 ; value of upholstery m'd, $19,000 ; cap., $9,000 ; m. emp., 7 ; f.emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, 4; cars m'd, 518, carriages, 57 ; value, $578,000 ; value of stock used, $896,500 ; cap., $111,500 ; bands emp., 396.
Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $156,000; lbs. of confectonery made, 530,000 ; value, $212,000 ; cap., $26,500 ; m. emp., 34 ;  £ emp., 12.
Photograph Albums, manufact.ories of, 1; value of stock used, $148,000.; albums made, 167,000 ; value, $237,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; m. emp., 25;  £ emp., 40.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 8; value of stock used, $45,000 ; value
of clothing m'd, $110,000 ; cap., $30,500 ; m. emp., 27 ;, £ emp., 70.
Coffee and Spice Mills, 1; value of stock used, $11,720 ; lbs. of coffee m'd, 44,400  ; value,  $17,580 ; cap.,  $8,000 ; hands emp.,  4.
Marble and other kinds of St.one, establishments for m.of, 3 ; value of stock used, $9,000 ; value of Monuments, Head St.ones, Building St.one, &c., m'd, $25,500 ; cap., $6,800 ; hands emp., 24.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of, 2 J  value  of  stock  used, $6,890 ; lbs. of tallow  candles  made,  51,816 ; value,  $8,445 ;  cap.,  $3,500  ;  hands  emp., 4.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 3; value of stock used, $17,000 ; bblta. of soft soap m'd, 1,000 ; value, $3,600 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 526,752 ; value, $19,185 ; cap., $8,500 ; hands emp., 8.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS .	269
HA.MPDEN Co.	SPRINGFIELD.

Jrlaster Builders, 15; Buildings erected, 55 ; value, $399,200; value of . materials used, $275,900 ; hands emp., 158.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ;. value of stock used, $6,400 ; value of work done,
$12,500 ; cap., $5,200 ; hands emp., 26.
Arms, establishments for m. of, 2 ;• value of stock used, $141,000 ; Pistols and Carbines m'd, 49,200 ; value, $607,620 ; cap., $300,000 ; m. emp., 490 ; £ emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 5 ; value of stock used, $22,400 ; value of tin ware m'd, $40,600 ; cap., $18,000 ; hands emp., 80.
White Lead and other Paints, establishments for m.  of, 1; value  of stock used, $38,000 ; Green, Vermillion, Yellow, &e., m'd, lbs., 205,000 ; value, $55,000 ; cap., $36,000 ; hands emp., 17.
Flouring Mills, 8; bush. of Grain ground, 76,200 ; value, $78,200 ; bbls. of Flour m'j}, 1,500 ; value, $16,500 ; cap., $26,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 4,830 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 195;
gross value of stock used, $14,690 ; value of boots and  shoes  m'd,
$24,050 ; cap., $6,050 ; m. emp., 21 ; £ emp., 5.
Brick Yards, 4; bricks m'd, 9,550,000; value, $68,800 ; cap.,$38,000;
hands emp., 108.
Snuff, 'J;pbacco, and Cigars m'd,  value,   $7,740 ; value  of  stock   used,
$18,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; m. emp., 16 ; £ emp., 8.
Blocb and Pumps,  establishments  for  m.  o( 1; value  of stock used,
$4,500 ; value of blocks  and pumps  m'd,  $20,000 ; cap., $10,000 ;
hands emp., 20.
W°11'8 &res, Sieves, Diab Covers, and other articles made wholly or in part of wire, 1; value of stock used, $4,000; articles m'd,  25,000 feet cloth, 2,000 sieves ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 2;
£ emp., 7.	·
Coffins and  Burial  Cues  of  all  kinds,  manufactories  of, 3 ; value  of stock used, $11,850; coffins made, 720; value, $15,800; cap., $9,000; hands emp., 7.
Planing Mills and Establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 8 ; value of stock used, $21,800 ; vali.,e of B88hes, doon and blinds m'd, $20,000 ; value of all other work done, $18,000 ; cap.,$11,500 ; hands emp., 27.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used, $84,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $5,000 ; value of paper boxes made, $50,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 15; £ emp., 50.
•Doee not include O. 8. Al'lll0f1, which turned oat  upwards  of  300,000 muskets,  and
-pto1ed 3,000  handt.
270	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
SPRINGFIELD.	H.&.HPDEN Co.

India Rubber Goods, establishments for m. ot;  1; value of stock used,
$26,500 ; value of Webbing, Suspenders, &c., m'd, $32,000 ; cap.,
$10,000 ; m. emp., 5; £ emp., 20.
Gos, establishments for m. ot; 1; value of stock used, $86,097 ; value of gas m'd, $92,000 ; cap., $150,000 ; bands emp., 15.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation ot; 8 ; tons of ice pre­ served, 6,800 ; value, $18,500. ; cap., $7,500 ; hands emp., 18.
Bakeries,   2 ;  value  of   stock  used,  $31,000 ; value  of  Bread  m'd,
$44,0dO ; cap., $11,000 ; hands emp.; 14.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 21,250 ; value, 5,312 ; bands emp., 12.
Firewood and  Bark  prepared  for  market, cords, 298 ; value,  $2,185;
cap., $595.
Farms, 138; acres, 9,778; value, including Buildings, $772,893 ; acres improved, 4,592 ; persons emp., 153.
Unimproved Land, acres, 3;814. Unimprovable Land, acres, 848. Woodland, acres, 1,200 ; value, $44,805.
Indian Corn, acres, 708 ; bush., 18,894 ; value, $20,798. Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 20 ; value, $36.	··
Rye, acres, 912 ; bush., 8,208 ; value, $12,826.	• Buckwheat, acres, 48 ; bush., 490 ; value, $502.
Oats, acres, 182 ; bush., 8,002; value, $2,959.
All other Grain Crops, acres; 12 ; value, $880. Potatoes, acres, 2951 ; bush., 28,070 ; value, $21,969.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field  crop, acres,  421 ;  bush., 9,675 ;·value,
$2,088.
Onions, acres, ll; bush., 455 ; value, $465. Carrots, bush., 7l; bush., 2,780 ; value, $1,152. Cabbage, acres, 91; value, $2,182.
Market  Gardening, acres, 101; value of  products,  $2,655.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 49 ; value, $6,880 ; value  of Garden  Seeds prepared  for market,  $,170.
Tobacco, acres, 731; lbs., 121,888 ; value, $28,155.
English Mowing, acres, 869 ; tons of English hay, 1,156 ; value, $84,812.
Wet Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, 217 ; tons of wet  meadow  or swale
hay, 146 ; value, $2,155.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,939 ; value of apples, $2,800 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 792 ; value of pears, 1,212 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 50 ; value  of  fruit,  $28 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $860.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	271
HAMPDEN  Co.	TOLLAND,

Merino Sheep, of dift"erent grades,  86;  all  other  kinds  of sheep, 194 ;
groee value of all sheep,  $1,581 ; lbe. of Merino Wool,  200; value,
$100; lbs. of all other wool produced, 617; value,  $589.
Horses, 1,864 ; value, $177,780; Oxen over four years old, 42; Steers under four years old, 25 ; value of oxen and steers, $5,770 ; Milch Cows, 625 ; Heifers, 87 ; value of oows aiid heifers, $87,180 ; number of Neat Stock not embraced above, (Bulls and Calves,) 66 ; gallons of Milk sold, 75,102 ; value, $15,940; lbs. of Butter sold,  6,570 ; value,  $1,880.
Beef, dressed, lbe., 1,689,681 ; value, $215,289.
Pork,tllressed, lbs., 158,819 ; value, $23,977. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 188,980 ; value, $11,868. Veal,  dressed,  lbe., 88,725;   value,  $10,659.
Swine, 1,019 ; value,. $19,725; value of Poultry sold, $647 ; value of Eggs sold, $971 ; lbe. of Honey, 207 ; value, $48; value of unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, $290.
Ot.rtridges, establishments for m. of, 4; value of stock used, $413,750 ; cartridges m'd, 88,498,700 ; value, $589,680 ; cap., $185,000 ; m. emp., 90 ; £ emp., 295.
Drain Tile, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; tile m'd, feet, 40,000; value, $11,000 ; cap,, $5,500; m. emp., 8.
.Artificial Limbs, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ;
limbs m'd, 56 ; value, $8,400 ; cap., $1,500; m. emp., 8.
Games and Parlor Amusements, establishments for ni. of,  1; value of
stock used, $1,000; value m'd, $5,000; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., S.
Tompions, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; tompions m'd, 150,000 ; value, $1,500 ; cap., $500 ; £ emp., I.
Knitting Machines,• establishments for m. of, 1; cap., $150,000 ; m. emp., 20.


TOLLAND.

Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $25,000 ; Hides tanned, 5,000 ; bides tanned and curried, 5,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $45,000 ; cap., $15,000; bands emp., 20. Saw Mille, 6.; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  160,000;  value,
$12,760 ; feet of  all other  lumber,  45,000 ; value,  $8,800 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; bands emp., 2.
•Jut commenced operatlone,
2i2	STATisrics OF THE	(1865.
WALES.	HAlrfPDEN   Co.

Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 175 ; value, $625.
Farms, 108; acres, 17,865 ; value, including Buildings, $171,548 ; acres
improved, 7,893 ; persons emp., 175. Unimproved Land, acres, 2,748.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,996. Woodland, acres, 4,283 ; value, $25,898.
Indian Com, acres, 41 ; bush., 1,072 ; value, $16,080. Buckwheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 50 ; value, $75.
Oats, acres, 31 ; bush., 868 ; value, $868. Potatoes, acres, 61; bush., 7,125 ; value, $2,850.
Turnip.;i cultivated as a field crop, acres, li ; bush., 170 ; value,.J4,250. English  Mowing,  acres,  1,527 ; tons of English hay, 1,271 ; value,
$20,336.	·
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 891 ; tons of wet meadow or  swale
hay,  482 ; value, $2,410.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 300 ; value of apples, $250. Sheep, 409 ; value, $1,686 ; lbs. of  Wool,  1,195;  value,  $717.
Horses, 180 ; value, $18,100 ; Oxen over four years old, 125; Steers under four years old, 46; value of oxen and steers, $18,890 ; Milch Cows, 632 ; heifers, 188; value of cows and heifers, $21,826 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (188 yearlings,) $1,793; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,545;  value, $2,263.50 ; lbs. of Cheese, 86,350 ; value,
$15,543.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 31,900 ; value, $2,552. Pork, dressed, lbs., 28,855 ; value, $4,828.25. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,200 ; value, $154.
Swine, 67 ; value, $804 ; value of Eggs sold, $20 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of farm produce, (83,950 lbs. Maple Sugar,) $a,l82.


WALES.
Woollen Mills, 3 ; sets machinery, 6 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 165,000 ; value of stock used, $276,871; yards of Doeskins m'd, 192,550 ; value,   $288,825;  yards   of    Satinet   m'd, · H5,756;  value,
$115,756; cap., $41,240 ; m.emp., 55; f. emp., 48.
Sokp, establishments for m. of, I ; value of stock used, $160 ; bbls. soft soap m'd, 80 ; value, $320 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., I.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; value of work done,
$600 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., I.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	273
H.uilPDEN   Co.	WALES.

Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 60 ; pairs of Shoes of all kinds m'd, 50 ; gross value of stock used, $275; value of boot& and ehoee m'd, $600 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp.,  1.
Straw Braid, value m'd and not made into bonnets or hats,  $180.
Brick Yarde, 2 ; bricks m'd, 140,000; value, $1,860; cap., $500; hands emp., 3.
Cloth Boxes and Cloth Boards, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000; value of wooden boxes and boards made, $1,860; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 2 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  175,000 ; value,
$2,2.§0 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Stavesprepared for market, 100,000 ; value, $3!5 ; value of all other lumber, (50,000 feet of square building timber,) $500 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood  prepared   for  market,  cords,  1,703;   value,  $7,608 ;  cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 3.
Charcoal, bush., m'd, 15,000 ; value, $1,650; cap.,$800 ; hands emp.,8.
Farms, 95 ; acres, 9,.(83; value, including Buildings, $176,421;  acres of hmd improved, 4,968 ; persons employed, 135.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,465.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,746.
. Woodland, acres, 931;  value, $124,855.
Indian Corn, acres, 69 ; bush., 1,368 ; value, $2,540. Wheat, acres, ll; bush., 17 ; value, $40.
Rye, acres, 8 ; bush., 109 ; value, SI 68. Barley, acres, 18; bush., 288; value, $861. Buckwheat, acres, 9 ; bush., 114 ; value, $186. Oats, acres, 80; bush., 547 ; value, $«9.
White Beans, acres, ll; bush., 82 ; value, $96. Potatoes, acres, 68 ; bush., 6,720;  value, $4,181.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2 ; bush., 387 ; value, $103. Tobaooo, acres, 1; lbs. 250 ;,value, $62.
English Mowing, acres, 814; tons of English hay, 618; value, $15,325.
Wet Meadow or Swale mo*n, acres, 438 ; tons wet meadow or ewale hay, 807 ; value, $8,684.
Apple-trees cu.Jtivated for their fruit, 8,940 ; value of apples, $1,585; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 18 ; value of peara, $12.
Sheep, 268; value, $1,072 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 819 ; value, $647.
Horses, 88 ; value, $7,650 ; Oxen over four years old, 66 ; Steen under four years old, 64 ; value of oxen and eteera, $7,427 ; Milch Cows, 129 ; Heifers,  63; value  of  cows  and  heifers,  $6,494 ; gallona of
86
274	STATISTICS OF	HE	(1865.
WESTFIELD.	HillPDEN Co.

Milk  sold, 1,551 ; vakae,  $841 ; lbs. of Butter  sold, 8,190; valne,
$1,197 ; lbs. of Cheese, 550 ; value, $94. Beef, dressed, lbs., 18,978 ; value, $1,258. Pork, dressed, lbs., 21,767 ; value, $8,818. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 580 ; value, $58.
Veal, dres.,ed, lbs., 5,706 ; value, $519.
Swine, 81; value, $465; value of; Poultry sold, $189 ; value of Eggs sold, $238 ; lbs. of  Honey, 171 ; value, $57.
Railroad Ties, 400 ; value, $180.
Cider Mills, 2 ; bbls. of cider m'd, 198; value, $896.


WESTFIELD.

Hoop Skirts, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $12,000 ; hoop skirts m'd, 24,000 ; value of the same, $20,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 13.
Paper Manufactories, 2 ; tons of stock consumed, 512 ; value, $75,340 ; tons wrapping paper m'd, 200 ; value, $25,000; reams of writing paper m'd, 13,488 ; value, $151,079 ; cap., $60,000 ; m. emp., 18;
£ emp., 30.	·
Organs, Melodeons, and Harmoniums, manufactories of, 1; value of stock  used,  $10,000;  Instruments  m'd,  18 ; value,  $80,000;   cap.,
$10,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Piano-fortes, establishments for the m. of detached parts of, 1; value m'd, $30,000 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; cap., $40,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $500;
newspapers and periodicals printed, (Westfield News-Letter,) 1; issued weekly; value, $1,200 ; cap., $1,200 ; value of all other printing done, $1,200 ; m. emp., 3 ; £ emp., 1.
auerreian and Photographic Establishments, I ; value of stock used,
$2,500; daguerreotypes and photographs faken, 2,500; value, $6,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 2.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishmeni.; for m•.of, 4 ; number of harnesses m'd, 96 ; value, $2,100 ; value of stock used, $1,475 ; cap., $900; hands emp., 6.
Railroad Oars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of; 2 ; Carriages m'd, 21; vllue, $6,000 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; cap., $2,300 ; hands emp., 18.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	275
H.ulPDEK  Co.	WESTFIELD.

Clothing,   establishments   for  the   m.  of,  2 ;  value  of   stock used,
$9,500 ; value of clothing m'd, $18,000 ; cap., $2,200 ; m. emp., 5 ;
£  emp., 5.
Master Builders, 4; Buildings erected, 18 ; ,·aloe, $26,700 ; value of materials used, $20,000 ; hands emp., 18.
Blacksmith Shops, 6 ; value of stock used, $5,800 ; value of work done,
$18,800 ; cap., $7;200 ; hands eQlp., 18.
Powder Mills, 2; value of stock used, $24,250 ; lbs.. of powder m'd, 187,000 ; value, $86,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories,  2 ; value of  stock  used, $4,500 ; value of  tin
ware m'd, $7,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 11.
Flouring Mills, 8 ; bush. of' Grain ground, 26,000 ; value, $39,200 ; bbls. Flour m'd, 600 ; value, $6,600 ; cap., $.5,500 ; hands emp., 6. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 850 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 2,900 ;
groes  value  of  stock  used, $7,400 ; value  of  boota  and  shoes  m'd,
$10,750 ; cap., $3,675; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 1.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 350,000 ; value, $3,500 ; cap., $1,500 ;
hands emp., 7.
Snuff, Tobacoo, and Cigars, value m'd, $808,750 ; value of stock used,
$123,998 ; cap., $117,'600 ; m. emp., 167 ; f. emp., 64.
Whip Manufactories, 26; value of stock used, $271,775; doz. of whips m'd, 842,998; value, $580,702 ; cap., $148,600 ; m. emp., 213 ; f. emp., 146.
Cofflna and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock-used,. $1,000 ; cofflna made, 150 ; value, $2,100 ; cap., $8,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $700 ; value of wooden  boxes  made,  $1,000 ; cap., $200;  m. emp., 1.
Gas,	tablishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,800 ; T"alue   of
gas m'd, $6,700 ; cap., $28,400 ; hands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved, 250 ; value, $800 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 7 ; feet of Lumber prepared fur market, 895,000 ; value,
$17,400 ; Shingles prepared for market, 475,000 ; value, $1,900 ; value of all"Other lumber, (Building Timber, Boards, &c.,) $22,200; cap.,  $19,400  ; hands  emp., 12.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 5,125; value, $19,110 ; cap., $2,200 ;  hands emp., 25.    .
Farms, 225;	20,799 ;  value,   including   Buildings, $930,080,;,
•acres improved, 12,997 ; persons emp., 887.
Unimproved Land, acres, 3,148.
276	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
WESTFIELD.	H,u1PDEN   Co.

Unimprovable  Land, acres,  1,001.
Woodland, acres, 8,980 ; value, $95,795.
Indian Corn, acres, 767 ; b11Sh., 16,277 ; value, $24,409.
Wheat, acres, 5 ; bosh., 105; value, $805.
Rye, acres, 1,205 ; bll8h., 9,471; value, $14,107. Buckwheat, acres, 158 ; bll8h,, 1,452 ; value, $1,452. Oats, acres, 181; bush., 8,031; value, $3,081.
Grain Crops, acres of all other, 1; bush., 10 ; value; $12.
Potatoes, acres, 283 ; bush., 17,256; value, $8,6274
Turnips cultivated  as a field crop, acres, 20 ; bll8h., 3,325 ; value, $930.
Carrots, acres, l; bll8h., 125; value, $47.
Tobacco, acres, 247 ; lbs., 391,205; value; $82,326.
English Mowing, acree, 1,880 ; tons of English hay,  2,241 ; value, •
$67,230.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown,  acres,  528 ; tons  wet meadow or swale
hay, 495 ; value, $7,470.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,131; value of apples, $3,270 ; Pear-trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit,  97 ;  value  of  pears,  $138 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 48 ; value, $80 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $116.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 74 ; Merino sheep, of dift'erent grades, 62 ; all other kinds of sheep, 448 ; groea value of all sheep, $2,858 ; lbs. of Saxony Wool, 210 ; value, $170 ; lbs. of Merino wool, 120 ; value, $80-; lbs. of  all other wool produced,  1,730; value, $1,3(8.
Horses, 600 ; value, $62,970 ; Ox.en over four years old, 140-; Steers
under four years old, 168; value of ox.en and steers, $1690 ; Milch Cows, 724; Heifers, 161;  value  of cows and heifers,  $27,858 ; value  of  Neat  Stock  not  embraced  above,  (53 Colts,  $1,985 ; 89 yearlings,
$1,000 ; 6 Bulls, $810 ; 81 calves, $144,) $3,389 ; . gallons of Milk
sold, 14,900; value, $2,780; lbs. of Butter sold, 21,010; value, $7,921.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 544,480 ; value, $51,920. Pork, dressed, lbs., 186,635. ; value, $26,865. Mutton, dressed, lbs. 14,500 ; value, $2,175. Veal, dressed, lbs., 27,673; value, $8,904.
Swine, 359 ; value, $5,231; value of Poultry sold, $593; value of Eggs sold, $671 ; lbs. of Honey, 1,180; value, $304; lbs. of Beeswax., 68 ; value, 21 ; value of unenumerated  articles of  farm  produce,
$12,970.	.
Steam Heaters, establishments for m. of, 1; tons castings, 463 ; value,
$51,089 ; heaters made, 150 ; value; $75,000 ; cap., $17,000 ; hands emp., S4;
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS ;	277
HillPDD   C<).	Wu  SPBINOFIELD.

Cigar Boxes, establishments for m. or, 1, boxes made, 4,500 ; value of etook used, $8,000 ; value of boxes m'd,' $4,800; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Whip Mounting Establishments, 1; value of etock uaed, $1,500 ; value of work done, $2,800 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Plating Machines, 1; value of p1ating done, $450 ; Cllp., $200 ; m. emp., 1.	•
Whip Lashes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of st.ock uaed, $5,700 ; value of whip bes  m'd,  $10,400 ; cap.,  $8,000 ; m.  emp.,  5; £ emp., 89.
Drums, establishmente for m. or, 1; drums m'd, 15,000 ; value of stock ueed, $5,264; value of drums m'd, $7,480 ; cap., $1,200 ; m. e!Dp., 4.


WEST SPRINGFIELD.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 20,000 ; cotton consumed, bales, 800 ; groes value of stock used, $125,000 ; yards of cotton Cloth m'd, (Sheeting,) 548,864 ;'* groee  value,  $150,000 ;  cap.,  $500,000 ; m.  emp.,  100 ;  f. emp., 200.
Paper llanufactoriea, 2 ; tons of stock consumed, 741 ; value,.$286,178 ; tons of writing paper m'd, 591; value, $452,529 ; cap., $200,000 ; m. emp., 47 ; £ emp., 110.	·
Railroad Can, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other Tehiclea, m'd, (40 carriages, 17 wagons, 20 sleighs,) value, $11,400 ; value of etock  ueed, $6,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands  emp., 12.
Blackemitb Shope, 2 ; value of etock ueed,  $950 ;  value  of  work done,  $8,200;  cap.,  $1,000 ; bands  emp., 4.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Gram ground, 50,074 ; value, $84,827 ; bble. of Flour m'd, 2,415 ; value, $28,980 ; cap., $25,000; hands emp., 6. Tanning and Currying Eetablishments, 2 ; value of stock uaed, $82,000 ; Hides tanned, 5,000 ; hides tanned and curried, 5,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $70,000 ; cap., $7,500; hands emp., 18.
Boots, paire of  all kinds  m'd,  100 ; gross  value  of st.ock  used,  $25p ;
value of boots and shoes m'd, $550 ; cap., $50; m. emp., 1.
Blacking, establishments for m. or, 1; value of  stock uaed, $180 ; gross
value of blacking m'd, $200 ; cap., $50; hands emp., 1. Shad taken, 7,000 ; value, $1,100 ; bands emp., 6•
•
•Daring the year ending llay ht, 1866,  the mill wu l'1lll  but  a  email  portion  of  th•
dme.   It produced  ID 1860, &,101,690 yards ot Sheeting.
278	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865;
WEST  SPRINGFIELD,	liAlrlPDEN  Co.

Saw Mills,  1; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  200,000 ; value
$5,000 ; Slab Wood prepared for market, cords, 200 ; value, $1,200; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 4,670 ; value,  $23,839.
Farms, 140; acres, 8,466 ; value, including Buildings, $795,780 ; acres
improved, 6,080 ; persons emp., 276. Unimproved Lwvi, acres, 685.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 251.
Woodland, acres, 2,502 ; value, $78,588.	f
Indian Com, acres, 286 ; bush., 9,340; value, $14,010. Wheat, acres, 10·; bush., 182; value, $864.
Rye, acres, 829 ; bush., 4,325 ; value, $6,487.
·Buckwheat,	. 4 ; bush., 56 ; value, $63. Ots, acres, 42·; bush., 1,233; value, $1,233.
·Potatoes, acres, 168 ; bush., 21,599 ; value, $12,390.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1; bush., 600 ; value, $80. Onions, acres, l; bush., 100 ; value, $200.
Cabbage, acres, i ; value of products, $130.
Market Gardening, acres, 66 ; value, of products $9,540. Tobacco, acres, 105 ; lbs., 192,944 ; value, $44,817.
English Mowing, acres, 1,413 ; tons of English .hay, 1,985 ;  value,
$5H	.	.
Wet  Meadow or Swale mown, acres,  227 ; tons  wet  meadow or swale
· hay, 224 ; value, $3,723•
.A,pple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,392 ; value of apples, $8,525 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 754; value of pears,  $267 ; all  other trees cultivated  for  their  fruit,  7 ; value  of  fruit,  $22 ; value  of  Nuts or Berries cultivated  or gathered   for  market,   $219.
Merino Sheep, of different  grades, 29 ; all other kinds of sheep, 266 ;
gross value of sheep, $1,530 ; lbe. of Merino Wool, 87 ; value, $88; lbs. of all other wool produced, 896 ; value, $701.
Horses, 195 ; value, $24,025 ; Oxen over four years old, 70; Steers under four years old, 20; value of oxen and steers, $8,565 ; Milch Cows, 414 ; Heifers, 62 ; value of cows and heifers, $22,815; gallons
_of Milk sold, 50,33 ; value, $10,401; lbs. of Butter sold, 17,501; value, $6,406 ; lbs. of Cheese, 176 ; value, $44.
Bee !lressed, lbe., 16,776; value, $1,685. Pork, dressed, lbs., 58,725 ; value, $9,394. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 704 ; value, $260. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,565 ; value, $260.
Swine, 9 ; value, $100 ; value of Poultry sold, $222 ; value of Eggs sol<l, $1,221.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	279
H.UilPDEN   Co.	WILBRABAJ[.


WILBRAHAM;

Woollen Mills, 4 ; sets of machinery, 11; lbs. of scoured Wool consumed, 140,000 ; gross value of stock used, $482,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd, m'd, 51,061; value, $25,957 ; value of all other wooJlen ·goods m'd, (192,855 yards Doeskin,) $259,000; cap., $98,000 ; m. emp., 71; f. emp., 81. ·
Paper Manufacto9r., I ; tons of stock consumed, 80 ; value, $227 ; tons of straw	paper m'd, 20 ; value, $2,800 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 2 ; wagons m'd, 8 ; value, $800 ; value of repairing, $1,800 ; value of stock used, $450 ; cap.,.$550 ; bands emp., 8.	·
Master  Builders, 2 ; Buildings  erected, 6;  value, $7,700 ;  value of
. materials used, $5,200 ; bands ·emp., 9.
Blacksmith Shops, 6; value of stock used, $1,225 ; value of work done,
$8,675 ; cap., $1,400 ; hands emp., 8.
Flouring Mills,  1;  bush. of Grain ground, 2,600 ; value, $5,000 ; cap.,
$2,000 ; bands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 247; pairs of Shoes of all kinds m'd, 245 ; gross value of stock used, $780 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,880 ; cap., $400 ; value of cobbling, $600 ;• m. emp., 5 ; f. emp. J.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, I ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of wooden boxes made, $850 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw  Mills, 4 ;  feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  445,000 ; value,
$14,500 ; Shingles prepared for market, 200,000 ; value, $650 ; cap.,
$8,400 ; hMds emp., 7.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 4.,824 ; value, $16,987 ; hands emp., 46.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 77,700 ; value,  $9,125; cap., $2,611 ; hands   emp.,
13.
Farms, 290 ; acres, 22,950 ; value, including Buildings, $988,196 ; acres improved, 18,098 ; persons emp.,.885.
Unimproved Land, acres, 9,857. Unimprovable Land, acres, 3,488. Woodland, acres, 4,584 ; value, $99,511.
Indian Com, acres, 682 ; bush., 12,152 ; value, $17,492. Wheat, acres, 12 ; bush., 117 ; value, $287.
Rye, acres, 544 ; bush., 4,596 ; value, $7,754. Buckwheat, acres, 99 ; bush., 852 ; value, $988.
280	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
WILBRA.JIA)[.	HAMPDEN   Co.
Oats, acres, 394 ; bush 4,314; value, $4,222. Herdsgrass Seed, acres, 2 ; bush., 5 ; value, $30. Clover Seed, acres, 3; bush., 21; value, $84.50. Potatoes, acres, 336 ; bush., 21,203; value, $11,116.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop,acres, 61; bush., 7,963 ; value, $1,814.
Onions, acres, 5l; bush., 370 ; value,  $659.50.
Carrots, acres, l; bush.,  34 ; value, $110.
Cabbage, acres, 1; value of products,  $143.
Beets   and  other  esculent   vegetables,   acres,   1} ';' bush.,   259 ; value,
$129.50.
Tobacco, acres, 46 ; lbs., 59,074; value, $10,974.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,312;  tons  of  English hay, 1,876;     value,
$50,653• ••
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 817 ; tons of wet meadow orswale hay, 579 ; value, $6,567.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 19,049 ; value  of apples,  $8,179 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit,  957 ; value of pears, $203 ; all
.other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,528; value of fruit, $826 ; value of  Nuts ·or  Berries  cultivated  or gathered  for market, $213.
Merino Sheep, of  different grades,  53; all  other  kinds  of  sheep,  763 ;
gross value  of  all sheep,  $8,526;  lbs.  of  Merino  wool, 125; value,
$108 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 2,363; value, $1,800.
Horses, 381; value, $83,136 ;- Oxen over four years old, 209 ; Steers under four yea.rs old, 834 ; value of oxen and steers, $28,498 ; Milch Cows, 644 ; Heifers, 745 ; value of cows and heifers, $28,791 ; value of Neat Stock · not embraced above, (259 Calves, 19 Bulls, 30 Yearlings, 15 Fat Cows,) $4,817 ; gallons of Milk sold, 18,650 ; value, $2,852 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 26,669 ; value, ·$8,802 ; lbs. of Cheese, 6,951; value, $1,501.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 112,656; value, $10,439. Pork, dressed, lbs., 94,250 ; value, $16,911. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,145 ; value, $252.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 12,423;  value,  $1,308.
Swine, 849 ; value, $15,933 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,286; value of Eggs sold, $1,137 ; lbs. of Honey, $1,195 ; value, $294; lbs. of Beeswax,  73  ; value,  $29.40 ; value  of unenumerated  articles of
F.arm  Produce, $5,124.50.	·
Value of  articles m'd in the family for sale, and not before   enumerated,
$597.
Wheelbarrows  m'd,  150 ; value,  $450 ; value  of stock  used,  $150 ;
cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF M.ASSACHUSETI'S.	281
luKPsa1aE Co.	AIIHUST.

Red-Top Hay Seed, bosh., 211; value, $26. Cider, bbls., 1,467 ; value, $4,585.
Value of Palm Leaf Hats braided and sewed, $897. Value of  Carpet woven, $100.
Value of Ladies' Collars made, SlOO.
Maple Sirup, gallons, 122; value, $200. Maple Sugar, lbs., 80 ; value, $7.50.
White Beans, acres, 9 ; bush., 186; value, $406. ,r,




H A M P SH I R E	C O U N T Y .


AMHERST.

Mechanics' Tools m'd, and not elsewhere enumerated, gross value, SS,000 ; value of stock med, $1,200 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 8. Hoop Skirts, establishments for m. of,  1; value  of stock  used,  $600 ;
dozens of skirts m'd, 50; value, $1,000 ; cap., $850; m. emp., 1;  f.
emp., 1.
Paper  Manufaetories,   4; tons  of  wrapping  paper  m'	150 ; 'Value,
$15,000 ;  paper  boa.rd  and  leather  paper  m'd,  tons,  700 ; value,
$70,000 ; cap., $26,000 ; m. emp., 85 ; f. emp., 8.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $2,000; newspapers printed, (Hampshire Expresa,) 1; isaued weekly ; gross value, $2,000 ; value of all other printing done, $5,000 ; cap.,$8,000 ; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 8.
Sewing Machine Manufaetories, 1; value of stock used,·$800 ; sewing machines m'd, 17; value, $1,700; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Daguerreian and Pbotpgraphic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$2,000 ; daguerreotypes  and photographs  taken,  15,000 ; value,
$4,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 2.
Saddles, Harnesaee and Trunb, establishments for m. of, 2 ; harnesses m'd, 29 ; value, $850; value of stock used, $490 ; cap., $1,200;  hands emp., 4.
Bailroad Cars, Coaches, ChaiBee, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, 8; children's carriages and sleds m'd, 17,750; value, $18,000 ; value of stock  used,  $8,000;  cap.,  $2,000 ; hands  emp., 12.
88
282	STATISTICS  OF . THE	(1865.

.AlmEllST.	H.U{P8HIRB Co•

Clothing, establishment.a for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; value of clothing  m'd,  $19,800 ; cap.,  $5,000 ; m. emp.,  6 ; f. emp.,
1&	.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of Tombstones m'd, $2,800 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 6 ; value, $85,000 ; value of materials used, $22,400 ; hands emp., 15.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,450 ; value of work done,
$4,500 ; cap., $8,100 ; hancls emp., 6.
Cabinet Manufactories, 2; value of stock used, $450 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $900 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $8,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,400 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 250 ; value of  boots and shoes m'd, $11,000 ; cap.,  $10,000 ; m. emp.,  12• .
Palm Leaf for Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, establishments for m. or preparation of, · 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ; tons of leaf pre­ pared,  120  ; cap.,  $8,000 ; hands  emp., 20.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $30,000 ; hoods m'd, doz., 80,000 ; hats m'd, doz., 50,000 ; value, $185,000 ; cap., $17,000 ; m. emp., 20 ; f. emp., 85.
Wire Safes, Sieves, Dish Covers, and other articles made wholly or in part of wire, manufactories of, 1; value m'd, (20 safes, 100 dozen sieves,  100  sets  dish  covers,)  $1,000 ; cap.,  $800 ; m.  emp., 1; f. ·
emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of wooden boxes made, $4,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Distilleries, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; gallons of Cider Brandy dis­ tilled,  200 ;·value,  $900 ; cap., $250 ; bands emp., 2.
Saw  Mills,  2; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  275,000 ; value,
$5,000 ; Laths and Clapboards prepared for market, 56,000 ; value,
$560 ; cap., $3,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood prepan>.d for market, cords, 5U ; value, $2,661. Chareoe.l, bush. prepared  for market, 200 ; value, $32.
Com Brooms m'd, 44,900 ; value,  $10,834 ; value  of stock consumed,
$8,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 284 ; acres, 14,832 ; value, including Buildings, $1,427,445 ;
acres improved, 18,529 ; persons emp., 378. Unimproved Land, acres, 899.



...	Digitized   by Google
1865.]	-*DUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSEITS.	288
HillPsmaE  Co.	AMHERST.

Unimprovable  Land, acres, 28.
Woodland, acres, 882 ; value, $33,148.
Indian Corn, acres, 618; bh.,  17,421;  value,  $34,842.
Broom Corn, acres, 8; lbs. of broom brush, 1,890 ; value,  $315; bush.
of  broom  seed, 146 ; value, $117.
Wheat, acres, 14; bush., 138; value, $360. Rye, acres, 198; bush., 2,852 ; value, $4,704. Buckwheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 56 ; vaJ,ue, $66. Oata, acres, 287 ; bmb., 5,764 ; value, $5,764.
Potatoes, acres, 179 ; bush., 16,316 ; value, $8,138.
Tumips cultivated asa field crop, acres, 4 ; bush., 860 ; value, $430.
Onions, acres, Ii; bush., 705 ; value, $1,410.
Carrots, bush., 40; value, $30.
Hops, acres, 4 ; lbs., 2,500 ; value, $625.
Tobacco, acres, 125!; lbs., 881,699 ; value, $76,000.
English Mowing, acres, 2,908 ; toM English hay, 3,817 ; nlue, $109,461.
Wet Meadow or Swale mo:wn, acres, 695 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 687 ; value, $10,305.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for  their fruit,  16,538;  value  of  apples,  $6,700;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 522 ; value of  pears, $311.  Sooth Down Sheep, graded,   1,726;  value,  $7,694 ; lbs.  of  Wool  pro­
docecl, 6,914 ; value, $6,084.
Honies, 50 7; value, $48,083; Oxen over four years old, 180 ; Steers under four years old, 156 ; value of oxen and steers, $21,823; Mil
ea.vs, 781; Heifers, 121 ; value of cows and heifers, $40,170 ; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (Bulls, Stags, Calves, and Year­ liogs, 124,) $2,202 ; gallons of Milk sold, 5,845 ; value, $1,069 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 87,085 ; value, $14,814; lbs. of Cheese, 14,175 ; value, $3,544.
Bee( dressed, lbs. 248,472; value, $34,786. Pork, dressed, lbs., 1S2,0l 7 ; value, $28,763. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 23,460; value, $4,223. Veal, dre8eed, lbs. 89,400 ; value, $5,516.
Swine, 835; value, $.5,051 ; value of  PooltrJ'  sold, $693; value  of Eggs  sold,  $817 ; lbs. of  Honey, 550 ; value, $129•
.Machine   Shop,   1; vue   of  stock   used,  $100 ; value  of  work   done,
$600 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1. Maple  Sugar, lbs., 720 ; value,  $185.
284	STATISTICS OF THE	•	[18.
BELCHERTOWN.	H.&.MP&HIRE  Co.

BELCHERTOWN.

Woollen Mills, 1;.sets of machinery, 1; lbs..of Scoured Wool consumed, 68,000 ; gross value of stock used, $45,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 85,000 ; value, $85,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 10 ; f. emp., 6.
Shovels, Spades, Forks, and Hoes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; doz. of shovels, spades, forks, and hoes m'd, 812 ; value, $6,500 ; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 4.
Paper l!anufactoriea, 2 ; tons of stock consumed, 412 ; value, $19,670 ; tons printing paper m'd, 180 ; value, $52,000 ; tons wrapping paper m'd, 280 ; value, $49,000 ; cap., $20,000; m. emp., 14 ; f. emp., 6.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for - of, 4 ; number m'd, (221 Wagons, 155 Sleighs,) 876 ; value, $43,110 ; value of stock used, $18,587 ; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 46.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $8,500 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 46 ; value, $280 ; .hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $8,100; value of work done,
$7,000 ; cap., $2,800 ; hands emp., 5.
Flouring Mills, 8; bush. of Grain ground, 12,000 ; value, $21,000 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 800; value, $1,500 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 8. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 200; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 100 ; gross   value   of  stock   used,  $500 ; value  of   boots  and •hoes
m'd, $1,200 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 2.
Wire Safes, Sieves, Dish-covers, and other articles made wholly or in part of wire, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; doz. wire sieves m'd, 250 ; value, $562 ; cap., $100; m. emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $850 ; coffins made, 70 ; value, $780 ; cap., $250; hands emp., 1.
Distilleries, 1; value of stock used, $750; bbls. of liquors distilled, 29 ; value, $2,700 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 11; feet of Lamber  prepared for market, 1,220,000 ;  value,
$20,388 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 540,000 ; value, $1,755 ; cap., $11,500 ; hands emp., 17.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 9,580 ; value, $83,580 ; cap., $25,000 ; hds emp., 75.
Charcoal m'd, bash., 1,800 ; value, $125.
1865.J	DUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	285
H.Ui1P8BIRB  Co.	BELCHERTOWN.

Farms, 860 ;acres, 82,887 ; value, including Buildings, $859,442 ; acres of land improved, 20,457 ; persons emp., 498.
Unimproved Land, acres, 6,238. Uoimprovable  Land,  acres,·931. WoodJand, acres, 8,411; yalue, $155,455.
Indian Corn, acres, 625 ; bush., 17,438; value, $30,516.
Wheat, acrp, 4 ; bush., 47 ; value, $120. Rye, acres, 266 ; bush., 2,887 ; value, $5,052. Barley, acres, 5 ; bush.,UO; value, $154.
Buckwheat, acres, 17; bush., 345; value, $431, Oats, acres, 860; bush., 7,451; value, $7,451. Potatoos, acres, 354 ; bush., 27,800 ; value, $18,900.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  28; bush., 2,417 ; value,
$604.
Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 400 ; value, $150.
Tobacco, acres, 45; lbs., 60,830 ; value, $10,000.
English  Mowing,  acres, 4,271 ; tons  of  English  bay, 8,945 ; "?1ue,
$118,850.	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 961 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 797 ; vue, $11,955. •
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 16,255; value of apples, $8,478 ; Pear-trees cultivated  for their  frui 806 ; value of  pears,  $87;  value of  Nuts  or  Berries   cultivated   or gathered   for  market,  $200.
Sheep, 1,521; value, $7,494 ; lbs. of W®I produced, 4,700 ; valae,
$4,280.
Horses, 475; value, $41,605; Oxen over four years old, 286; Steers under four years old, 804 ; value of oxen and steers, $88,227 ; Milch Cows, 925; Heifers, 857; value of cows and heifers, $52,256; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulls,) $214 ; gallons of Milk eold,  5,575 ; value,  $1,280;  lbs.  of  Butter  l!Old,   43,417 ; value,
$15-1196 ;  lbs.  of  - Cheese,  15,640 ; value, $2,607.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 172,667; value, $21,584. Pork, dre!llled, lbs., 182,925; value, $80,482, Mutton, dressed, lbs., 12,178; value, $2,080. Veal, dressed, lbs., 88,720 ; value, $4,720.
Swine, 276; value, $4,802 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,424 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,080; lbs. of Honey, 1,018; value, $200 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 25; value, $10.
286	STATISTICS  OF  THE	•	[1865.
CHESTERFIELD.	HA.UPSBIRE  Co.
•
CHESTERFIELD.

Marble and other kinds of  Stone, establishments for m. of  articles from, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of scythe stones m'd, $6,000 ; cap. invested in marble m'd, $2,000    handa emp.,  7.
Arms, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; Rifles m'd, 10; value, $400.
Grist Mills, 8 ; hands emp., 8.
Wooden Ware of all sorts, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of ware m'd, $10,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Saw Mills,  7 ;  feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 800,000 ; value,
$8,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared for market, cords, 955 ; value, $2,876 ;
bands emp., 8.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 15,000·; value,  $1,500 ; cap.,  $8,000;  hands emp.,
5\	.
Farms,  152 ; acres, 18,711; value, including Buildings, $244,203; acres
improved, 867 ; persons emp., 168. Unimproved Land, acres, 5,978.	I Unimprovable  Land, acres, 1,795.
Woodland, acres, 2,558 ; value, $82,425.
Indian Com, acres, 187 ; bush., 4,017 ; value, $5,020.
Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 48 ; value, $96. Rye, acres, 2 ; bush., 50 ; value, $62. Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 60; value, $60.
Buckwheat, acres, 12 ; bush., 500 ; value, $875.
Oats, acres, 90 ; bush., 2,610; value, $1,958. Herdsgrass Seed, acres, S ; bush., 12 ; value, $42. Potatoes, acres, 128 ; bush., 11,491; value, $5,746.
Turnips cultivated as a  field  crop, acres, 6 ; bush:, 1,500 ; value,  $225.
Onions, bush., 50 ; value, $50.
Carrots, bush., 425 ; value, $212.
Cabbage, acres, 2 ; value of  products,  $106.
Winter Squash, value, $50.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2 ; bush., 800 ; value, $150.
Tobacco, acres, 2 ; lbs., 8,000 ; value, $600.
English Mowing, acres, 2,577 ; tons English hay, 1,847; value, $22,164.
Wet lleadow or Swale mown, acres, 461 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 875 ; value, si,875.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit,  4,581;  value  of  apples, $4,581.
1865.]	jNDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS .	287
HAMPSDIRE   Co.	CUMMINGTON,

Merino Sheep, of different grades, 1,272 ; value, $2,496; lbs. of Merino Wool, 4,965.
Horses, 196 ; value, $15,278 ; Oxen over four years old, 90 ; Steers under four years old, 178 ; value of oxen and steers, $9,626 ; Milch Cows, .898 ; Heifers, 156 ; value of cows and heifers,  $15,808; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (218 Calves, &c.,) $1,475 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 16,875 ; value, $4,091; lbs. of Cheese, 4,700 ; value,  $107.
Beef: dressed, lbs., 89,747 ; value, $3,179.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 28,900 ; value, $2,832; Veal, dreaeed, lbs., 6,700; value, $586.
Swine, 15i; value, $2,802 ; value of Poultry sold, $247 ; value of Eggs sold, $616 ; lbs. of Honey, 50 ; value, $12 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 4 ; value, S2 ; value o( unenumerated  articles  of Farm Produce,
$1,000.
Value of all other articles ·m'd in the family for sale and not before enu­ merated,  $2,000.


etaiMINGTON.

Woollen Mills, 2 ; seta machinery, 2; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 9,850 ; value Qf stock used, $9,758; lbs. Yam m'd and not made into cloth, 8,300 ; value, $6,600 ; value of all other goods m'd, (List­ ing and Rolls on contract,) $6,250 ; cap.,  $6,000 ; m.  emp.,  2 ; f. emp., 8.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 18; value, $4,160 ; tons book paper m'd, 460 ; value, $2,576 ; cap., $22,160 ; m. emp., 8 ;
£ emp., 8.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; hame88eB 'd, J5; value, $450 ; value of etock UBed, $175; cap., $150 ; hands
emp., 1.
Fur  Goods, including Leather  Gloves  and  Mittens,  establishments   for
m. of, 1; value of stock used $500 ; pairs of glovCB and mittens m'd, 550 ; value, $850 ; cap., $600 ; m. emp., part of the time, 1; £ emp., ]... Ink, Envelopes, and other articles of Stationery, manufactories of, 2 ; value of  stock  used,  $175;  value  of  Pen  Sticks  m'd,  $1,100 ; cap.,
$225 ; m. emp., 8; f. emp., 1.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock   UBed,   $1,900 ; boxes  of   scythe  stone · m'd,  11,200 ; value,
$14,000 ; cap., $9,100 ; bands emp., 16.
288	STATISTICS OF THE	•	[1865.
. CU>IHINGTON,	H.&.llPSBIRE  Co.
Blacksmith Shops,.5 ; value of stock used, $1,025;  value of work done,
$3,100; cap., $1,450 ; hands emp., 5.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; value of Bed­ steads  m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $750 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $87,500 ; Hic\es tanned, 5,000; value of Leather tanned, $52,500; cap., $16,000; hands emp., 5.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, establishments for m. o 1; value of stock used, $250 ; hats m'd, 7,800 ; value, $800 ; cap., $150;
f. emp., 5.	·
Wooden Ware, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $700 ;
value of ware m'd, $2,000; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2..
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $60 ; coffins made, 15 ; value, $120; cap., $60 ; hands emp., part of  the time, 1.
Timber sold, value, $200.
Saw  Mills,  4 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  60,000 ; value,
$540 ; Broom Handles m'd, 146,000 ; value, $2,190 ; value. of stock used, $1,200 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood and Bark prepared for mar1ft, cords   817 ; value, $1,047.;
hands emp., 1.
Farms, 180 ; acres, 18,780; value, including Buildings, $230,104; acres of land improved, 9,970; persons emp., 129.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 354.
Woodland, acres, 3,456 ; value, $i8,884,
Indian Com, acres, 80; bush., 2,765; value, $4,700.
Wheat, acres, Si; bush., 54; value, $286.
Rye, acres, 3f ; bush., 55 ; value, $94.
Barley, acres, 23 ; bush., 580; value, $870. Buckwheat, acres, 26 ; bush., 643 ; value, $648. Oats, acres, 29 ; bush., 724; value, $724.
Herdsgrass Seed, bush., 2!; value, $15.
Potatoes, acres, 98; bush., 16,097; value, $8,047.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, ll; bush., 487; value, $98.
Onions, bush., 4 ; value, $8.	.
Carrots, acres, l ; bush., 145 ; value,  $50.
Market Gardening, acres, l ; value of products, $90.
Tobacco, acres, 6 ; lbs., 4,550 ; value, $500.
English  Mowing,  acres, 8,194 ; tons  of English  hay,  2,202;  value,
$35,282.
1865.]	'INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	2.8.9
H..&.HPSHIBE  Co.	E..&.STILUIPTON,
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 53 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
bay, 41 ; value, $400.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,595 ; value of apples, $2,578 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $5.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 408 ; all other kinds of sheep, 1,252;
gross value  of sheep,  $7,864 ; lbs.  of Merino  Wool,  1,884 ; value,
$1,884; lbs. of all other wool produced, 5,797 ; value, $5,797.
Horses, 224 ; value, $11,252 ; Oxen over four years old, 55 ; Steers under four years old, 180 ; value of oxen and steers, $10,660; Milch Cows, 379 ; Heifers, 107 ; value of cows and heifers, $16,924 ; value of Neat Snot embraced above, (4•Bulls,) $265; gallons of Milk sold, 881; value, $167; lbs. Butter sold, 11,600 ; value, $4,060 ; lbs. of Cheese, 8,840; value, $1,890.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 60,722; value, $5,465. Pork, dressed, lbs., 88,500 ; value, $6,160. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 510 ; value, $60.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,945 ; value, $265.
Swine, 184 ; value, $6,160 ;' value of Poultry sold, $500;  value  of Eggs sold, $560 ; lbs. of Honey, 224;  value, $78 ; lbs. of Beeswax,
14; value, $10; lbs. Spruce Oil, 200 ; value, $50 ; lbs. Maple Sugar, 83,640 ; value, $5,882.


EASTHAMPTON.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 11,000; cotton consumed, lbs., 560,000; groes value of stock used, $616,000 ; lbs. of Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 359,878 ; gross value, $631,089 ; cap., $250,000 ; m. emp.,55;
£ emp., 115.
Button Manufactories, 1; value of stock used,  $60,000; gross of  cov­
ered  buttons  m'd,  275,000 ; value,  $160,000 ; cap.,  $150,000; m.
emp., 15 ; f. emp., 100.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,	•
$50 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 150; value, $75 ; cap ,
$800; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, eetablishmenta for m. of, 1; wagons m'd, 8; value, $1,000 ; value ot stock used, $800 ; cap $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,720 ; value of clothing m'd, $4,300; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 2,
87
290	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
EASTHAMPTON.	HAHPSHIBE     Co.


Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 20 ; value, $107,000 ; value of materials used, $80,000 ; hands emp., 89.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,800;  value of work done,
$8,050 ; cap., $1,250 ;" hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1 ; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $7,000 ; cap., $2,000.
Flouring Mille, 2 ; bush. of Grain ground, 25,000 ; value, $25,000 ; cap., $18,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; Hides tanned and curried, 250 ; value of Leather tanned and curried,
$500 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 120; Shoes, pairs of all lcinds m'd, 20 ;  gross value of stock used, $500 ;.alue of boots and shoes m'd, $950 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp., 4.
Brick Yards, 2 ; bricks m'd, 514,000 ; value, $4,162 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Planing Mille, 2 ; value of stock  used,  $10,800 ; value  of work done,
$1,900 ; cap., $8,150 ; hands emp., 2.
}ij,dia Rubber Goods, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used,
$571,000 ; value  of   Suspenders,   GUBBet  Web,   Braids,  Cords,  &c:,
&c., $884,000; cap., $450,000; m. emp., 170 ; f. emp., 800.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of gas m'd, $2500 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation ot; 1; tone preserved, 300 ; value, $200 ; cap., $175 ; hands emp., 1,
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value ,of building stone quarried and prepared for market, $1,000 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mille,  4; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for  market, 915,000 ; value,
$19,860 ; Shingles and  Laths  prepared  for  market,  10,000 Laths,
105,000 Shingles ; value, $500 ; cap., $26,000 ; hands emp., 10. Firewood and Bark, cords prepared for market, 975; value, $4,792 ;
cap!, $900 ; hands emp.,8•
Farms, 185 ; acres, 5,828 ; value, including Buildings, $885,550; acres
improved, 8,524 ; persone  emp.,177.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,218. Unimprovable Land, acres, 457. Woodland, acres, 629 ; value, $80,275.
Indian Corn, acres, 300f ; bush., 7,447 ; value, $10,640.
Broom Corn, acres, 4 ; lbs. _of broom Brush, 1,900 ; value, $880 ; bush.
of broom Seed, 206 ; value, $154.50. Wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 95 ; value, $170.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSEITS.	291
H.u,PsBIRE Co.	ENFIELD.

Ry,acrcs, 867 ; bush., 8,255; value, $4,568. Buckwheat, acres, 18; bush., 155; value, $186. Oats, acres, 1001; bush., 2,217 ; value, $1,972. Potatoes, acres, 86!; bush., 9,889 ; value, $6,558.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 9 ; bush., 1,755 ; value, $640. Carrots, acres, 2! ; bush., 770; value, $801.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, -l- ; bush., 60 ; value, $28.
Tobacco, acres, 92; lbs., 186,946 ; value, $25,899.
English Mowing, acres, 755 ; tons of English hay, 941 ;value, $20,044.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 205 ; tons of wet meadow or iswale hay, 221 ; value, $2,926.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,794 ; value of apples, $1,867; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 91; value of pears,  $53; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 220 ; value of fruit, $58 ; value of Nuta  or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $25.
Sheep, 209 ; value, $1,098; Iba. of Wool produced, 702 ; value, $495.20.
Honies, 240 ; value, $28,586 ; Oxen over four  years  old,  58;  Steers under four years old, 50 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,080 ; Milch · Cows, 287 ;  Heifers, 85 ;  value of cows and  heifers, $13,060 ; value of 148 Neat Stock not embraced above, $1,503; gallons of Milk sold, 9,116 ; value,   $2,118.25 ;  lbs.  of  Butter  sold,  11,653;  value,
$8,495.90 ; lbs. of Cheese, 50; value, $10. Beet; dressed, lbs., 102,251; value, $11,751. Pork, dressed, Iba., 46,777 ; value, $6,634.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,175 ; value, $261.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 4,6M;  value, $499.58.
Swine, 158 ; value, $2,115; value of Poultry sold, $181;value of Eggs eold, $461; lbs. of Honey, 330 ; value, $109 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 5; value,  $2.50 ; value  of unenumerated  articles of  Farm Produce,
$160.


ENFIELD.
Woollen Mills, 2 ; seta of machinery, 11; lbs. of scoured wool con­ sumed, $800,000 ; groea value of stock used, $885,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 150,000; value, $800,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 200,000 ; value, $150,000 ; cap., $112,000 ; m. emp., 87 ; f. emp., 77. Clothing,  establishments  for  m.  of;  1; cap.,  $800 ; m.  emp.,  1;   f.
·emp., 4.
;.!!)2	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
ENFIELD.	HAMPSHIRE  Co.

Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of, 1; lbs. of tallow candles made, 500 ; value, $80 ; cap., $250 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 100 ; value, $500 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 300 ; value,
$30 ; cap., $100; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $250 ; value of work done,
$!JOO ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 2.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value  of stock  used,  $300 ; value  of tin
ware m'd, $400 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $660 ; value	,
of  wooden boxes made, $840 ; m. emp., 2.
Saw Mills,  3; feet of  lumber  prepared  for market,  650,000 ; value,
$3,800;  hands emp., 5.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 408 ; value,  $1,464.
Farms, 116; acres, 9,897; value of same, including Buildings, $250,170;
acres of land improved, 1,803; persons emp., 147.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,150. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,136. Woodland, acres, 1,898 ; value, $34,745.
Indian Com, acres, 28 ; bush., 5,883 ; value, $5,883. Wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 89 ; value, $178.	· Rye, acres, .110 ; bush., 1,174 ; value, $1,174.
Buckwheat, acres, 41 ; bush., 826 ; value, $326.
Oats, acres, 78 ; bush., 1,947 ; value, $974. Potatoes, acres, 89 ; bush., 5,605 ; value, $2,808. Tobacco, acres, 19 ; lbs., 28,150 ; value, $4,222.	.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,112 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,189 ; value
$14,244.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 49! ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 201 ; value, $1,608.	·
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,150 ; value of apples, $1,611 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 46; value of  pears,  $82 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $312.
Sheep, 268 ; value, $1,168 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 793; value, $360. Horses, 140 ; value, $14,475 ; Oxen over four years old, 69 ; Steers under four years old, 78; value of oxen and steers, $10,818; Milch Cows, 284 ; Heifers, 78 ; value of cows and heifers, $18,180 ; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, $429 ; gallons of Milk sold, 1,479 ;·value, $305 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 4,904 ; value, $1,226;  lbs. of Cheese, 12,141 ; value, $1,457.	·
Beef, dressed, lbs., 45,390 ; value, $4,589.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	298
fuHPSBIRE  Co.	GOSHEN.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 46,040; value,  $5,525.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 285; value, $1 .
Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,562 ; value, $956.	•
Swine, 91 ; value, $1,568; value of Poultry sold, $224; value of Eggs
sold, $328 ; lbs.of .Honey, ·40 ; value, $9.


GOSHEN.

Blacksmith Shops, I ; value of stock used, $100 ; value of work done,
$500 ; hands emp., 1.	·
Stone Quarries, 1; value of flagging stones quarried and prepared for market, $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 800,000 ; value,
$8,350; cap., $2,650 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared for market, cords, 1,160 ; value,  $8,700.
Farms,  81;  acres,  10,088;  value,  including  Buildings,  $117,245  ;
acres improved, 7,494 ; persons emp., 150.
Unimproved Land, acres, 667. Unimprovable Land, acres,  582. Woodland, acres, 1,340 ; value, $30,000.
Indian Com, acres, 88; bush., 1,288 ; value, $1,925.
Barley, acres, 6; bush., 128;  value, $160.
Buckwheat, acres, 6; bush., 147 ; value, $147.
Oats, acres, 29 ; bush., 944; value, $944. Potatoes, acres, 52; bush., 6,610 ; value, $3,305. Carrots, acres, 1l ; bush., 890 ; value, $200.
Tobacco, acres, 5; lbs., 7,500 ; value, $1,500.
English   Mowing,  acres,   1,181;  tons  of   English   bay,  875; value,
$U,500.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 865 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 250 ; value, $2,500.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,588;  value of apples, $1,015.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 796; all other kinds of sheep, 211 ;
·gross value of  all sheep, $5,05 ;  lbs. of  Merino Wool, 2,786;  value,
$2,228.80 ; lbs. of  all other wool produced,  844 ; value, $675.20.
Hones, 78 ; value, $6,800 ; Oxen over four years  old,  44;  Steers under four years old, 16 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,820 ; Milch Cows, 170 ; Heifers, 30 ; value of cows and heifers, $5,700 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (47 Cows, 28 Two-years old, 29 Yearlings,) $2,360; lbs. of Butter sold, 8,025;  value,  $2,407.50 ; lbs. of Cheese, 2,600 ; value, $390.
294	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
GRANBY,	IIAIIPSBIRE  Co.


Beef; dressed, lbs., 75,000; value, ..$6,875. Pork, dressed, lbs., 20,555 ; value, $3,426.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 8,750; value, $375.
Swine, 86; value, $504 ; value of Poultry sold, $450 ;  value  of Eggs sold $250; lbs. of Honey, 800; value, $75 ; lbs.of Beeswax, 50 ; value, $25 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce,
{18,880    lbs.  Maple  Sugar,   75  bush.  Beans,  200  bbls.   Cider,)
$8,017.50.
Broom Handles m'd, 25,000 ; value, $320 ; hands emp., 1. Value of Level Stocks m'd, $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Wagoµs for Children, m'd, 950 ; value, $800 ; hands emp., 2.


GRANBY.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 2; lbs. of scoured wool con­ sumed, 58,000; gross value of st.ock used, $48,886.20 ; yards of Sat­ inet m'd, 107,658;  value,  $56,650.98; cap., $80,000; m. emp., 15 ;
£ emp., 11.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of st.ock consumed, 70 ; value, $1,500 ; to!lll of wrapping paper m'd, 45 ; value, $5,625 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 1.
Master  Builders,  2 ; Buildings  erected,  10 ; value,  $4,000;  bands
emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; '\"alue of work done,
$1,200 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw  Mills,  3; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, 52,000 ; va,lue,
$7,800; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for market, 100,000;   value,  $400;  cap., $5,000 ; hands  emp.,  6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,283 ; value, $5,132. Farms,  161;  acres,  14,928 ; value,  including  Buildings,  $394,681;
acres improved, 12,195; persons emp., 219. Unimproved Land, acres, 8,443.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 525. Woodland, acres, 1,785;  valu_e,  $45,835.
Indian Corn, acres, 188i; bush., 10,900 ; value, $16,350.
Broom Corn, acres, li ; lbs. of broom brush, 800 ; value, $150 ; bush. of broom seed, 80 ; value, $80.
Wheat, acres, 7 ; bush., 136 ; value, $272.
Rye, acres, 485 ; bush., 4,588 ; value, $6,872. Buckwheat, acres, 25 ; bush., 259 ; value, $259.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSEITS.	295
HAXPSBIRE  Co.	GREENWICH.

Oats, acres, 64; bush., 1,670 ; value, $1,670.
Potatoes, acres, 182 ; bush., 14,585 ; value, $10,988.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8 ; bush., 2,007 ;·value, $500.
Onions, acres, 1; bush., 100 ; value, $150. Carrots, acres, l; bush., 200 ; value, $80. Cabbage, acres, l; value, $50.
Tobacco, acres, 28t ; lbs., 44,991; value, $6,748.65.
Engli.eh  Mowing,  acres,  1,178\ ; tons of English  hay, 1,178; value,
$85,840.	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acre.q., 645 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 688; value, $10,245.
Apple-trees  cultivated   for their   fruit,   4,8«; value of  apples,  $2,000;
Pear-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 60 ; value of  pears, 100.
Sheep;  154;   value,  1,816 ;  lbs.  of  Wool  produced,  1,362 ;   value,
$817.20.
Ho1'888, 252; value, $18,290; Oxen over four years  old,  114; Steere  •  under four years old, 200; value  of oxen  and  steel'B,  $13,010 ; Milch CoWB, '86 ; lleifere, 201; value of cows and heifel'B,  $21,060 ; gallone of Milk sold, 2,550 ; value,  $408 ; lbf. of Butter  sold, 34,238 ;    value,
$11,981.55.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 212,830 ; value, $25,589.60. Pork, dre8eed, lbs., 86,866; value, $13,029.90. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 8,880 ; value, $1,509.60. Veal, dreeeed, lbs., 25,247; value, $2,019.76.
Swine, 250; value, $2,955 ; value of Poultry sold, $361; value of Eggs sold, $857.


GREENWICH.

Blaebmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value  of work  done,
$1,000 ; cap., $250 ; hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mille, 1; bush., of Grain ground, 18,000 ; value, $28,800.
Boxes,   establishments   for   m.   of,   1;  value  of   stock  used, $2,500;
wooden boxes made, 4,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 3,
Saw  Mille, 2; feet  of   Lumber prepared  for  market,  883,000; value
$45,960; Shingles prepared for market, 172,000; value, $887 ;hands
emp., 8.
Firewood  and Bark  prepared  for market,  cords,  488 ; value,  $1,822 ;
Fanns, 128 ; acree 11,786 ; value, including Buildings, $185,990; acres of land improved, 5,419 ; persons emp., 175.	·
296	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
HADLEY.	HillPsHIRE    Co.

Unimproved Land, acres, 2,758. Unimprovable Land, acres, 933. Woodland, acres, 1,520;  value,  $32,535.
Indian Corn, acres, 256 ; bush., 4,199 ; value, $8,898. Whea acres, St ; bush., 114 ; value, $259.
Rye, acres, 101; bush., 854 ; value, $1,677• . Buckwheat, acres, 116 ; bush., 595 ; value, $660. Oats, acres, 113 ; bush., 2,011 ; value, .$2,011.
Grain Crops, acres of all other, 1; bush., 7 ; vafue, $16. Potatoes, acres, 85 ; bush., 6,821 ; value, $2,921.
Tobacco, acres, 2 ; lbs. 2,350; value, $290.
Cranberries, acres, 10 ; bush., 6 ; value, $30.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,025 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  803 ; value,
$24,605.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 534 ; tons of wet meadow   or swale
hay, 426 ; value,  $4,524.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,666 ; value of apples, $1,702. Sheep,  325;  value,   $1,150 ;  lbs.  of  Wool  produced,  - 1,393 ; value,
$1,152.
Horses, 121; value, $7,053; Oxen over four years old, 68 ; Steers under four years old, 85 ; value of xen and steers, $7,922 ; Milch Cows, 287 ; Heifers, 94 ; value of cows  and heifers, $9,514; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (83) $328 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,734 ; value, $1,999 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 12,60'5 ; value, $1,951.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 9,313; value, $880. Pork, dressed, lbs., 39,330; value, $6,056. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 690; value, $95.
Veal, lbs., 14,521; value, $2,917.
Swine, 86 ; value, $1,251 ; value of Poultry sold,  $382;  value  of  Eggs sold, $434 ; lbs. of Honey, 331; value,  $92 ; value  of  all other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, (Palm Leaf  Webs and Hats,)  $1,254.


HADLEY.

Wire Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000; wire m'd, 12,000 lbs.; value, $3,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp,. 8.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETIS.	297
fuHPSHJRE   Co.	HADLEY,

Saw  Mills,  5 ; feet  of  Lumber   prepared   for market,  500,000 ; value,
$10,000,  cap., $16,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Firewood prepared  for market, cords, 550 ; value, $2,800.
Com and other Brooms m'd, 500,000; value, $100,000; value of stock consumed, $60,000; cap., $30,000 ; hands emp., 80.
Farms, 800 ; acres, 11,450 ; value, including Buildings, $929,330 ; acres
of land improved, 8,218 ; persons emp., 550. Unimproved Land, acres, 2,177.
Woodland, acres, 1,982 ; value, $66,805.
Indian Corn, acres, 929 ; bush., 88,821; value, $83,821.
Broom Corn, acres, 110; lbs. of' broom brush,  60,000 ; value,  $9,000 ;
bosh. of' broom seed, 9,510 ; value, $5,000. Wheat, acres, 28 ; bush., 274 ; value, $548. Rye, acres, 564 ; bush., 7,564 ; value, $7,564. Buckwheat, acres, 12; bush., 250 ; value, $250. Oats, acres, 212 ; bush., 5;806 ; value, $4,854.
Potatoes, acres, 180 ; bush., 11,800 ; value, $5,900.
Tobacco, acres, 583 ; lbs. 1,006,000 ; value, $150,000.
English  Mowing, acres, 2,400 ; tons  of  English  hay,  8,829 ; value,
$57,435.
Wet Meadow or  Swale  mown, acres, 150; tons wet  meadow or swale
hay, 150 ; value,  $1,500.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,828 ; value of apples, $10,000 ; Pear-trees coltivated for their fruit, 215; value of pears, $1,000 ; value of' Nots coltivated or gathered for market, $200.
Sheep, 1,000 ; value, $4,000 ; lbs. of Wool produced,  3,200 ; value,
$2,560.
Horses, 388; value, $40,000 ; Oxen over four years old, 100 ;  Steers under four years old, 154; value of'oxen and steers, $16,000 ; Milch Cows, 500 ; Heifers, 157 ;value of cows and heifers, $28,300; gall0118 of  Milk sold, 2,909;  value, $728; lbs; of Butter sold, 17,835 ; Talue,
$4,460 ; lbs. of Cheese, 500; value, $110.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 64,550 ; value, $8,070. Pork, dressed, lbs., 121,400 ; value, $18,210. Veal, dressed, lbs., 6,125 ; value,  $425.
Swine, 488 ; value, $9,500 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,000.

88
298
STATISTICS  OF THE
(1865.
HATFIELD,  ·

ILucPssmE Co.


HATFIELD.

Flouring  Mills,  1; bush.  of Grain  ground, 82,500 ; value, $40,625 ;
bbls. Flour m'd, 500 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, 1,400,000 ; value,
$25,200 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared fur mar­ ket, 850,000 ; value $1,400 ; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,700 ; value, $6,800 ;
cap., $3,400 ; hands emp. 6.
Corn and other Brooms m'd, 49,000 ; value, $15,250 ; value of stock con­ sumed, $18,000 ; cap., $13,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 185; acres, 9,164; value, including Buildings, $916,400 ;·acre11 improved, 3,911; persons emp.,  280.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 4,216.
Woodland, acres, 1,087 ; value, $51,850.
Indian  Corn, acres, 569 ; bosh.,  19,704;  value. $2.9,556.
Broom Corn;acres, 41 ; lbs. broom bush, 88,450; value, $5,767 ; bush. of broom Seed, 2,425 ; value, $2,218.
Wheat, acres, 118 ; bush., 1,947 ; value, $8,894. Rye, acres, 172 ; bush., 1,628 ; value, $1,628. Barley, acres, 21; bush., 45 ; value, $67.
Oats1 acres, 35; bush., 839 ; value, $587. Potatoes, acres, 91 ; bush., 9,883; value, $4,942. Onions, acres, 3; bus 1,290 ; value, $1,985. ·
Cabbage, acres, l; value, $35.
Tobacco, acreR, 718; lbs. 1,402,000 ; value, $210,300.
English Mowing,	1,366 ; tons English hay, 1,647 ; value, $41,175.
Wet Meadow   or  Swale  mown, 798;  tons wet  meadow or  swale   hay,
866 ; value, $17,820.
Apple-trees  cultivated for their fruit, 1,606; value of apples, $849.
Sheep, 250 ; value, $400 ; lbs: of Wool produced, 600; value, $400.
Horses, 297 ; value, $84,680 ; Oxen over four years old, 195 ; Steers under. four years old, 79 ; value of oxen and steers, $86,048; Milch Cows, 245; Heifers, 42 ; val·ue of cows and heifers, $16,085 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (118 beef cows,) $7,240 ; gallons, of Milk sold, 901; value,.$208 ; lbs. of Butter sold, $5,815; value,
$1,767.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 8,600 ; value, $480.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 57,800;  value, $8,777.
Swine, 106; value, $1,600 ; ; value of Eggs, $145.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	299
IIAKPsmRE Co.	HUNTINGTON.


HUNTINGTON.

Axes,  Hatchets,  and  other  Edge  Tools,  establishments  to' r  m.  of, 2 ;
value of stock used, $2,400 ; dozens m'd,  400 ; value, $6,000 ; cap.,
$3,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Mechanics' Tools m'd, and not elsewhere enumerated, gross value, $800 ;
value of stock used, $400 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $150 ; Whetstones m'd, dozens, 1,200 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 4.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $1,150; value of work done,
$2,800 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands cmp., 5.
Cabinet Manuf'actories,  1; value of stock  used,  $75 ; value  of chairs
and cabinet ware m'd, $800 ; hands emp., 1.	•
Tin and Sheet Iron Ware Manufactories, 1;valueofstock used, $1,000 ;
value of ware m'd, $1,500 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 5,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; Hides tanned, 150; hides tann and curried, 50 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $1,000 ; cap., $1,400 ; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 188 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 75 ; gross value of stock used, $500 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $500;  m. emp., 1.
Whip Lash Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; dozens of lashes m'd, 2,000 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 10.
Wooden Bowls, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $250 ;
value of bowls m'd, $800 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Diatilleries, 8; bbls. of Cider Brandy distilled, 10 ; value, $600 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw Mills,  4 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for  market, 175,000 ; value,
$2,625 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 1471;  value, $8,677.50.
Farms, 106; acres, H,606 ; value, including Buildings, $825,000 ; acres improved, 4,544 ; persons emp., 140.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,888. Unimprovable Land, acres, 8,646. Woodland,  acres,  2,588;  value, $25,880.
Indian Com, acres, 77 ; bush., 2,117 ; value, $8,175.50.
Rye, acres, 16 ; bush., 221;  value, $881.50.
300	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
MIDDLEFIELD,	HAMPSHIRE   Co.

Barley, acres, 11; bush., 111; value, $188.75 Buckwheat, acres, 15 ; bush., 158; value, $158. Oats, acres, 19 ; bush., 470 ; value, $470.
Potatoes, acres, 60 ; bush., 7,500 ; value, $3,850.
Tobacco, acres, 12f ; lbs., 23,567 ; valu $4,000.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,150 ; tons of  English  hay,  1,500 ; value,
$30,000.	•   .
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 83 ; tons of wet meadow or swalc hay, 70 ; value, $700.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,488; value of  apples,   $800.
Sheep, 500 ; value, $3,000 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,300 ; value, $975. Horses, 140 ; value, $11,200 ; Oxen over four years old, 76 ; Steers under four years old, 217 ; value of oxen and steers, $12,200; Milch Cows, 336 ; Heifers, 107 ; value of cows and heifers, $13,044 ; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (10 Colts, 6 Bulls,) $600 ; gallons of Milk sold, 970 ; value, $194 ; lbs.  of Butter sold,  13,642 ; value,
$5,374.70 ; lbs. of Cheese, 4,800 ; value, $960.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 39,500 ; value, $3,160.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 30,400 ; value, $5,472.
Swine, 87; value, $870; value of Poultry sold, $179 ; value of Eggs sold,
$179 ; Maple Sugar, lbs., 13,895 ; value, $2,501.10 ; bbls. of Cider,
700 ; value, $1,750. .
Yalue of Bedsteads, Cabs, Boys' Sleds, Children's Carts, Cribs, Table Legs, and Trundle Beds m'd, $28,000; value of stock used, $9,133; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 23.
Value of Washing Machines m'd, $1,000;  value  of stock  used,  $500 ;
hands emp., 2.


MIDDLEFIELD.
Woollen Mills, 2 ; sets machinery, 5 ; lbs.  scoured  wool  consumed, 70,000 ; value of stock used, $100,000 ;  yards  Broadcloth  m'd,  85,000  ; value,  $170,000 ; m.  emp., 45;  f. emp.,   30.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 450 ; value, $20,000 ;
tons of  all kinds of paper  m'd, 250 ; value, $42,000; cap., $25,000 ;
m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 3.
Saw Mills, 4; feet · of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  220,000 ; value,
$2,640 ; Shingles prepared for market, 159,000 ; value, $700 ; cap.,
$1,400 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for  Dl$'ket,  cords,  600 ; value,   $2,360.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	301
HA¥PSBIRE    Co.	NORTHAJIPTON.

Farms, 74 ; acres, 14,175 ; value, including Buildings, $236,070 ; acres of land improved, 9,452, ; persons emp., 120.
Uni'mproved  Land, acres,  1,138. ·
Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,169. WoodlaBd, acres, 2,421 ; value, $86,800.
Indian Corn, acres, 34 ; bush., 1,800 ; value, $1,950. Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 23 ; value, $46.
Barley, acres, 22 ; bush., 469 ; value, $708. Buckwheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 82 ; value, $82. Oats, acres, 18 ; bush., 290 ; value, $290.
Grain Crops, acres of all other, 2 ; bush., U ; value, $100.
Potatoes, acres, 58; bush., 8,200 ; value, $4,100.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1 ; bush., 405 ; value, $100. Beets and other eseulent vegetables, 1 ; bush., 460 ; value, $140.
. Tobacco, acres, 5 ; lbs., 5,400 ; value,·$585.
English Mowing, acres, 2,806; tons English bay, 1,447; value, $28,940.
Wet Meadow  or  Swale mown, acres, 51; tons wet meadow or  swale
bay, 36; value, $860.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,840 ; value of apples, $1,130. Merino Sheep, 2,704 ; value, $1',686 ; lbs. of Merino Wool produced,
10,000;  value, $10,000.
Horses, 180 ; value, $12,425 ; Oxen over four years old, 60 ; Steers under four years old, 115 ; value of oxen and steers, $12,433; Milch Cows, 201; Heifers, 150 ; value of cows and heifers, $12,861; value of Neat Stock not.embraced above, (168 dry cows for beef,) $6,625 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,810;  value, $2,444.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 85,865 ; value, $8,228. Pork, dressed, lbs., 11,700 ; value, $1,750. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 900 ; value, $81.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,626 ; value, $168.
Swine, 88 ; value, $703 ; value of Poultry sold, $62 ; value of Eggs sold, $162 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, $2,679. Shafts, Spokes, Felloes, &c., value of m'd, $2,500; value of stock used,
$1,000 ; cap., $1,500;  m. emp., 6.


NORTHAMPTON.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 11,000 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 800,000 ; gross value of stock used, $120,000 ; yards of cotton cloth m'd, 850,000 ; gross value, $212,500 ; cap., $100,000; m. emp., 82 ; f. emp., 52.
302	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
NoRTBAKPTON,	HAHPSBIRE Co.

Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 1; lbs. of scoured wool con­ sumed, 13,000 ; gross value of stock used, $15,000; yards  of  Flannel or Blanketing m'd, 24,0oo·; value, $8,000 ; lbs. of woollen yarn  m'd  and  not  made  into  cloth,  6,000 ; value,  $9,000;  cap.,
$13,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 3.
Hosiery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; doz. pairs of hosiery m'd, 1,150 ; value, $4,600 ; cap., $3,000; m. emp., 1; £ emp.,  10.
Silk Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $225,000; 'lbs. of sewing silk m'd, 22,500 ; value, $303,000; cap., $70,000; m. emp., 30 ; £ emp., 129.
Wire Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $(,000 ; tons of wire m'd,
17 ; value, $6,500 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $12,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 200 ; value, $18,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for  m.  of,  2 ;  gross value of stock used, $14,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $29,000; cap., $22,000;  hands emp., 20.
Shovels, Spades, Forks, and Hoes,• establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; dozens of shovels, spades, forks, and hoes m'd, 600; valu $10,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., 100.
Button Manofactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $145,000 ; vegetable ivory and composition buttons m'd, 18(,000 gross ; value, $244,000 ; cap., $40,000 ; m. emp., 85 ; £ emp., 108.
Hoop Skirts, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $35,000 ; skirts m'd, 60,000; value, $60,000; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 15 ; f, emp., 40.
Paper Manufactories, 3 ; tons of stock consumed, 411 ; value, $60,000 ; tons of wrapping paper m'd, 75; value, $27,000 ; reams of writing paper m'd, 50,000; value,  $100,000; cap., $30,000 ; m. emp., 34 ;
£ emp.,  110.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 3; value of stock used, $8,000 ; newspapers and periodicals printed, (Hampshire Gazette, weekly, Free Press, semi-weekly,) 2; gross value, $10,000 ; cap., $16,000 ; m. emp., 12 ; £ emp., 5.
Bookbinderies, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,200 ; value of bookbinding done, $4,500 ; cap., $2,300 ; m. emp., 6 ; £ emp., 4.

A large part of the year muaketa were manufactured,
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	803
HAKPSHIRE   Co.	NoaTBA.MPTON.

Book-publishing Establishments, 1; books published, 15,000 ; value, exclusive of cost of printing !l,lld  binding,  $1,000 ; cap.,  connected with bindery.
Sewing-Machine Manufactories,  1; value of  stock used,  $60,000 ;  sew­
ing-machines m'd, 6,000 ; value, $325,000 ; cap., $240,000 ; hands emp., 150.
Daguerreian  and Photographic  Establishments,  8 ;. value  of  stock used,
$2,300 ; daguerreotypes  and  photographs taken, 9,200 ; value, $4,000;
cap., $3,600 ; m. emp., 6 ; f. emp., 2.
Mattresses  of  all  kinds  and  materials,  manufactories  of,   1; value of
stock used, $1,000 ; husk mattresses made, 250 ; value, $1,500 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Saddles, Harnesaes and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; hamesaes m'd, 60 ; value, $1,800 ; value of stock used, $700 ; cap., $1,600 ; hands emp., 4.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. o 2 ; sleighs m'd, 18 ; wagons m'd, 25; value,
$8,700; value of stock used, $2,000 ; cap., $4,500 ; hands emp.,·14. Port Monnaies, establishments for m. of, 1; dozens m'd, 20,000 ; value,
$120,000 ; value of stock used, $75,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp.,
20; £ emp., 80.
Photograph Albums, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; albums made, 1,800;  value, $1,000 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp.,  1.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used, $29,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $38,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 18 ; £ emp., 34.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of articles from, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of Monuments and Tomb­ stones m'd, $8,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp.,  8.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; Iba. of tallow candles made, 20,000 ; value, $3,800 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock use<l, $1,050 ;·bbl&  of
soft soap m'd, 700; value, $4,200 ; Iba. of hard soap m'd, 72,000 ; value, $7,920; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Builden-, 7; Buildings erected, 42 ; value, $109,000 ; value of materials used, $82,000 ; hands emp., 78.
Blacksmith  Shope,0  4 ; value of stock used, $1,700 ; value of work done,
$5,500 ; cap., $2,800 ; hands emp., 10.
Anos m'd, 8,000 Gun Barrels, 20,000 Bayonets ; value  of  stock used,
$50,000 ; value after m'd, $60,000.



Digitized byGoogle	.......
804:	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
NORTHAMPTON.	IIAHPsa1RB Co.

Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,500; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $3,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 6• .
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $18,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 14:.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. of Grain ground, 4:6,200 ; value, $80,000 ; cap., $9,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Brick Yards, 2 ; bricks m'd, 925,000 ; value, $7,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; bands emp., 18.
Wooden Ware of all sorts, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $30,000 ; value of Baskets m'd, $601000 ; cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 60.
Planing Mills, and establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of sashes, doors and  blinds m'd, $7,000 ; value of all other wo:rk done, $5,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Gas, establishments for  m. of, .1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of  gas m'd, $10,000 ; cap., $3:8,000;  bands emp., 3.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved, 250 ; value, $900·; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2.
Pickles and Preserves, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$500 ; value qf pickles and preserves m'd, $3,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $12,000 ; value of bread m'd, $17,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 7.
Saw Mills, 4 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,200,000 ; value,
$24,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,800 ; value, $9,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Com and other Brooms  m'd, 11,871 ; value, $3,632 ; value of stock
consumed, $3,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Farms, 205 ; acres, 15,015; value,· inclu.Jing Buildings, $1,017,400 ; acres improved, 7,829 ; persons emp., 410.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 5,749.
Woodland, acres, 1,920 ; value, f 48,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 658 ; bush., 23,615 ; value, $41,326.
Broom Corn, acres, 126 ; lbs. broom brush, 76,000 ;•value, $15,200 ; bush. broom seed, 5,500 ; value, $4,400.
Wheat, acres, 34; bush., 910 ; value, $1,820. Rye, acres, 261 ; bush., 4,600 ; value, $8,050. Oats, acres, 65 ; bush., 2,005 ; value, $2,005.
Potatoes, acres, 187 ; bush., 22,500 ; value, $11,000.



Digitized by Google
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	805
ILu,n>sRJRB  Co.	PELHAJL

Turnipe cultivated asafield crop, acres, 12 ; bosh., 6,000 ; value, $1,500.
·OnioDS, acres, ll ; bush., 850 ; value, $700.
. Carrots, acres, 4 ; bush., 2,400 ; value, $720.
Cabbage, acres, 4 ; value, $500.
Market Gardening, acres, 10 ; value of products, $2,500. Tobacco, acres, 485; lbs., 757,700 ; value, $151,540.
Basket Willow cultivated, acres, 5 ; vafue, $500.
English  Mowing, acres, 3,495 ; tons of English  hay,  4,387 ; value,
$109,675.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, (,160 ; value of apples, $8,640 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 650; value of pears, $4QO.
Merino Sheep, full blood, 58 ; all other kinds of sheep, 272 ; gross value of all sheep, $2,500 ; lbs. of merino wopl, 507 ; value, $507 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 1,350; value, $1,215.
Horses, 738 ; value, $55,350; Oxen over four years.old, 182 ; Steere under four years old, 104; value of oxen and steers, $17,160; Milch Cows, 796 ; Heifers, 144; value of cys and heifers, $40,900 ; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (231Yearlings,) $2,810  galloIIS  • of Milk sold,  20,650;  value,  $5,162 ;  lbs.  of  Butter  sold,  6,5001 value, $2,600.
dreaed, lbs., 788,000; value, $86,680.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 68,000 ; value, $10,700. Mutton, dreseed, lbs. 75,000 ; value, $12,000. Veal, dresaed, lbs., 4'>,000 ; value, $5,000.
Swine, 408; value, $5,100.
Daguerreotype   Cues  m'd,   dozeDS,   12,000;   valae,   $50,0001  Tal11e  of
stock used, $20,00 ; cap., $10,000 ; m.' emp., 20.



PELHAM.

Stone and Marble Quarries, 2 ; value of Building Stolle quarried an<)
prepared for market, $500 ; cap., $150; hands emp., 2.	·
Saw Milhl, 3 ; fei.t of Lumber prepared for market, 365,000 ; value,
$5,075; Shingles prepared for market, 250,000 ; value, $625 ; value
of Fishing aifl Gun Rode, $800; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 6. FirewcJ:od   prepared   for  market,  cords,  2,058 ; value,   $4,497 ; cap.,
$2,884; hands emp., 12.
81



Digitized by Google
aoa	STATISTICS OF THE	(186&

 	


tharooal, bush. m'd, 009,600; value,  $41,650; cap., $41,650 ; haDd8
•	emp., 50.
Farms, 100 ; acres, 11,116; value, including Buildings, $104,049 ; acree
improved, 8,444;  persons emp.,  150.
Unimproved Lf.Ddt acres, 4,415. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,555. Woodland, acres, 1,815 ; value, ·s28,285.
Indian Com, acres, 147 ; bush., 2,649 ; value, $8,978.50.
Wheat, acre11, 1; bush., 50 ; value, $75.
Rye, acres, 18 ; bush., 114 ; value, $171. Buckwh&iat,  acres, 2 ; bush.,  25 ; value,  $25. ()ate, acres, 88; bush., 1,252 ; value, $1,252. i>otatoes, acres, 186; bu.sh.,  2,270 ; value, $6,135.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, bush, 1,587;  value, $743.
oba.cco, acres, 16 ; lbs., 21,884 ; value, $2,626,
.-;nglish Mowing, acres, 1,475; tons of English hay, 889 ; value, $18,385.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, ,-cres, 427 ; tons wet ·meadow or swale
llay, 279 ; value, $1,925.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,854 ; value of apples, $1,307 ; Pear-trees  cultivated  for  their  &uit.,  12 ;  value  of   pears,  $12 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 100 ; value of fruit, $100; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $617.
Sheep, 829 ; value, $1,075; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,180; value, $565.
Horses, 181; value, $8,680 ; Oxen over four years old, 80 ; Steen, under four years old, 48 ; value, of oxen and steers, $8,245 ; Milch
Oma, 288 ; Heifers, 86; value of cows and heifers, $8,154 ; value
of  Neat Stock not embraced above,,  (10 Bulls,) $196 ; lbs. of Butter
.aold, 4,302 ; value, $1,500 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 8,125;  value, $812.50.
Beef, dressed, lbs. sold, 28,175 ; value, $1,622.25.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 88,448 ; value, $6,150.88.
Mutton, dressed, lbs.,  1,186;  value, $118.60.	•
Veal, dressed, lbs. sold, 689 ; value, $68.90.
Swine, 94 ; value, $1,227 ; value of Poultry sold, $494 ; value of Egge
:  aold,  $888;  lbs. of  Honey, 800 ; value, $80 ; Beans, bush., 111;
value, $388.
alue of  all other  articles  m'd, in  the  family  for  sale and  not  before
enumerated, $2;445.25.
•





•
Digitized by Google
i8'5.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACm'JSETTS.



PLAINFIELD.
PLA.INl'l'BLD.


•
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 1;lbs. of BCOured wool consume<l, 3,000 ; gross value of stock used, $3,130; yards of Cassimere m'd, 400 ; value, $700 ; yards of  Satinet  m'd,  1,600 ;  value,  $2,400 ; yards of  Flannel or Blanketing,  1,600  ; value,t$2,000 ; cap., $1,000;
m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 2.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; value or repairs, $125 ; value of stock used, $50 ; cap., $75 ; hands emp., l• Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, 2 ;  sleighs  m'd,  12 ;  wagons  12  ;  value,   $1,500 ;  value  of stock
used, $650; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2!.
Blacksmith Shope, 2 ; value of stock used, $200 ; value of work done,
$900 ; cap., $275; hands emp., 2.
Flouring  Mills,  1; bush.  of  Grain  ground, 2,000 ;  value,  $3,000 ;
cap.,  $1,200 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs  of  all kinds  m'd, 35 ; Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,  85;
gross  value  of   stock  used,  $150 ; value  of   boots  and  shoes   m'd,
$287 ; value of repairing, $100; cap., $75 ; m. emp., j.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, 1; value  of  stock used,  $1,650;
men's hats m'd, 2,750 doz.; boys' bats m'd, 2,750 doz.; value, $8,250 ; cap.,$700 ; f. emp., 92.
Pail and Tub  Manufactories, 8 ; value of stock  used,  $160 ; sap tubs
m'd, l,150; Butter Firkins m'd, 700 ; value, $685 ; cap., $87, hands
emp., 2.
Butter Boxes, establishments for m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $225'; value of wooden boxes made, $450; cap., $ 20 ; m. emp., 1in each shop one-fourth of the year.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of lumber prepared  for market,  148,000 ;  value,
$1,815;  Laths  prepared for  market,  6,000;  value,  $18 ;  value of Butter Box Hoops, $50 ; cap., $1,200; hands emp., 1
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for  market, cords,  161; value, .$398 ;
hands emp., l-	·	·
Cbarcoal m'd, bush., 10,000; value, $1,000; cap., $50 ; hands mp., 1. Farms,   116;   acres,  12,382;     value,   including   Buildings,   $167,040  ;
acres improved, 8,264; persons emp., 100. Unimproved Land, acres, 1,777.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 591. Woodland, acres, 1,700 ; value, $25,500.
Indian Corn, acres, 67 ; bush., 2,883 ; value, $3,500.
Wheat, acres, 4 ; bush., 52; value, $104.


Digitized byGoogle .
808	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
PLAINFIELD,	HA!IIIPsmaE   Co• .

Barley, acres, 18 ; bush., 400 ; value, $400. Buckwheat, acres, 12; bush., 290 ; value, $217. Oats, acres, 45; bush., 1,228; value, $921.
All other  Grain Crops, acres,  2l ; bush.  40 ; value,   $85.
Herdsgrass Seed, acres, 2 ; bush. 8\ ;value, $50.
Potatoes, acres, 821; j>ush., 11,152 ; value, $4,460.
Turnips cultivated as a field  crop, acres, 1; bush., 807; value, $100.
·earrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 1,495 ; value, $448.
Tobacco, acres, 41 ; lbs., 4,925 ; value, $985.
English   Mowing,   acres,  2,316;   tons  of   English   hay,   1,526; value,
$22,890• .
Wet Meadow or Swale.mown, acres, 270 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 197 ; value,  $1,576.
Apple.trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,800 ; value of apples, $977 ; Pear.trees cultivated for their fruit, 84 ; value of pears, $82; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 13 ; value of fruit, $8.
•	Sheep, 1,808; value, $5,216 ; lbs. of Wool, 4,578 ; value, $2,746.
Horses, 125 ; value, $11,480 ; Oxen over four years old, 40 ; Steers under four years old, 149 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,447 ; Milch Cows, 299 ; Heifers, 92 ; value of cows and heifers, $11,801; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (2 Bulls,) $75; gallons of Milk sold, 117 ; value, $21 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 10,629 ; value, $4,252; lbs. of Cheese, 2,400; value, $360.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 41,960 ; value, $3,567. Pork, dressed, lbs., 29,435 ; value, $4,416. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,025 ; value, $200. Veal, dressed, lbs., 3,186; value, $188.
Swine, 60 ; value, $1,166; value of Poultry sold, $216 ; value of  Eggs sold,  $586; value  of unenumerated articles of  Farm Produce,
$408.
Cloth m'd in the famil (5 yards Flannel, 21 yards  Frocking;) value,
$36 ; value of all other articles m'd in the family, for sale and not before enumerated, $60.
Establishments for m. of Broom Handles, 4 ; broom handles ·m'd, 125,000 ; brush handles m'd, 20,000 ;1 value, $1,925 ; value of stock used, $750 ; cap., $900 ; m. emp., 2.
Baa!'et Manufactory, 1; baskets m'd, 800 ; value, $600_; value of stock used, $50 ; cap., $150 ; bands emp., If.
Maple Sugar, lbs., 26,165 ; value, $4,861 ; value of  wood  used,  $500 ;
cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Shaved Shingles m'd, 75,000 ; value, $250 ; value of stock used, $100;
bands emp., l•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	809
Hil1P8BIRE   Co.	PRESCOTT,

Repair of Wagons and  Sleighs, value of work,  $200 ; value of stock
used, $50 ; hands emp., l·
Grain Measures m'd, sets, 75; value, $75 ; value of stock used, $15. Millinery Shops, 1; value of articles made, $800 ; value of stock used,
$400 ; cap., $800 ; £ emp., 2.


PRESCOTT.

Blacksmith Shope, 2 ; value of stock used, $600 ; value of work done,
$600; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. Grain ground, 2,000 ; value, $3,000 ; hands
emp., 1,
Palm Leaf  Hats made, value, $1,785.
Saw  Mills,  5 ; feet of  Lumber prepared  for market,  1,670,000; value,
$16,700; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 185,000 ; value, $1,215; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 200 ; value, $400.
Farms, 108 ;-acres, 10,566;  value, including Buildings, $176,624:; acres
improved, 5,380; persons emp., 112.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,186. Unimprovable Land, acres, 480. Woodland, acres, 1,950 ; value, $29,250.
Indian Corn, acres, 14:1; bush., 8,548 ; value, $5,822.
Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 80 ; value, ,$60. Rye, acres, 19 ; bush., 211; value, $316.50.
Barley, acres, 6 ; bush., 125; value, $187.50. Buckwheat, acres, 18 ; bush., 165 ; value, $182. Oats, acres, 4:7; bush., 1,284 ; value, $987.20. Potatoes, acres, 90 ; bush., 7,860; value, $8,680.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2; busM, 200; value, $100. Onions, acres,  ; bush., 125 ; value, $250.
Tobacco, acres, .9i ; lbs., 11,900 ; value, $1,808.
English   )lowing,  acres,  1,189;  tons  of   English bay, 1,011;    value,
$5,165.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 272 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
bay, 240; value, $1,968.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,14:1; value of apples, $1,379 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 151; value of pears, $35; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 286 ; value of fruit, $66 ; value of  Nut.a or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $800.
STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
Sot11'JI H.ADLET.	HAuP&BIBE    Co.

. 245 ; value, $942; lbs. Wool produced, 929 ; value, $464.60.
Hol'lle8, 85; value, $6,125; Oxen  over  four  years  old,  52; Steers under four years old, 67 ; value of oxen and steen, $6,910 ; Milch Cows, 288; Heifers,  68 ; value of  cows and heifers,  .$10,170 ; value  of Neat Stock not embraced above, $1,600 ; Iba. of Butter sold, 8,019 ; value,  $1,207.60;  lbs. of  Cheese, 42,539 ; value,  $5,104.68.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 22,050 ; value, $2,206. Pork, dressed, Iba., 34,345; value, $4,121.40. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 535 ; value, $58.50.
Y dressed, lbs.,-1,625; value, $195.
Swine, 84 ; value, $186; ·value of  Poultry  sold,  $578.60; value of Eggs sold, $316 ; lbs. of Honey, 237 ; value, $94.80 ; Iba. of Bees- · wax, 3 ; value, $2.25.; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $150.•
Valµe of all other  article11  m'd  in ·the  family  for  sale and  not before
enumerated, $2,209.


SOUTH  HADLEY.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 10,112; cotton consumed, lbs.,  246,000 ;  gross value of stock used, $224,000 ; yards of cotton Cloth m'd, (Ginghams,) 1,348,387 ; gross value, $459,665; cap., $350,000 ; m. emp., 115 ; f. emp., 190.
Woollen Millll, two unfinished on the 1st of May ; sets of machinery, 3.
Paper Manufactoriea,  (one new, did'nothing previous to May 1st, 1865,) 4 ; tons of stock consumed, 752 ; value, (including other materials and filel,) $145,100; toJU! of wrapping paper m'd, 275; value, $70,500: reams of writing paper m'd, (),000; value, $190,000 ; cap., $51,000;
ni.emp., 29 ; f. emp., 59.
Daguerreian  and Pbotograpbic  Estalblishments,  1; value of  stock used,
$150 ; daguerreotypes and photogr!Lphs taken, 2,500; value, $750 ;
cap., $600 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Master Builders, 4 ; Buildings erected, 13 ; value, $20,400; value of
, materials used, $16,000 ; hands emp., 11.	•
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used,  $600 ; value of work done,
$4,000 ; cap., $1,200 ; bands emp., 4.
Tin Ware  Manufactori, 1; valqe of stock  used,  $1,000;  value tot'
tin ware m'd, $1,750 i cap., $800 ; bands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, (for custom work, and dealing in m &c.,) · I ; bush. of grain ground, 12,000;  value,  $15,000 ; tons  of  Gypsum ground,
188 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp, 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	' 81l
llillPsBJBB   Co.	SoutB HADLEY.

Boots, pairs of  all kinds m'd, 100;  Shoes,  pairs of  all  kinds  m'd,   126J
gross  value  of   stock  used,   $650 ; value  of  boots  and  shoes   m'd,
$976 ; cap. invested in the bueineee and repairing, $2,000 ; m. emp.,
in manuf'g and repairs, 5 ; value of repairs, $1,500.	·
Brick Yarde, 2 ; bricks m'd, 1,250,000 ; value, $10,800 ; cap., $4,500, • hands emp., 19.
Pail  and Tub Manufactoriee,  2 ; value  of  stock   need,   $700 ; tube   m'c\
275;  pails, 1,850;  value, $1,400 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 2. Planing Mille and Establishments for m. of Sashes, Doore, and Blinds,
1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of eaehee, doors and blinds m'd, ,800; "Value of all other work done,  $1,200 ; cap.,  $5,000 5 hands emp., 6.
Boxes, establishments for m. or, 1; value of stock used, $4,150 ; value
of wooden boxes made, $7,500 ; cap., $4,500 ; m. emp., 5. Shad taken, 24,000 ; value,  $6,000 ; hands emp., 10, two months.
Saw Mills,  4; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  100,000 ; value,
$1,500; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared (or market, cords, 1,287 ; value, $5,246 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 5.
}'arms, 120; acree, 9,180 ; value,  incbiding  Buildings,  $872,588; acres improved, 5,285 ; persons emp., 210.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,895. Unimprov,ble Land, acres, 1,200. Woodland, acres, 1,160 ; value, $27,500.
Indian Corn, acres, 289 ; bush., 9,307 ; value, $11,634.	•
Broom  Corn, acres, 1; lbe.. of  broom  brush, 475;  value, $75 ; bush. of
broom seed, 40 ; value, $15.
Wheat, acres, 19i ; bush., 804 ; value, $798. Rye, acres, 184; bush., 2,438; value, $8,041. Buckwheat, acres, 4l ; bush., 57 ; value, $40. Oats, acres, 94; buah., 2,297 ; value, $1,608.
Potatoes, acres, 128f ; bush., 12,092 ; value, $6,516.
Tornips ealtivated as a field crop, acres, 29 ; bosh., 7,725 ; value, $1,081.
Onions, acres, 1f  ; bush.,  286 ; value,  $500.
Carrots, acres, 2f ; bush., MO ; value, $287.
Market Gardening, acres, 4i ; value of product.a, $870. Tobecco,  acrea,  881;  lbs.,  139,075;   value,   $21,309.
English Mowing, acres, 1,026; tone of English hay, 1,286 ; value, S25,720.	·
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale mown,  acres, 4171 ; tone of wet  meadow or
awale hay, 896l; value, $5,658.
312 •	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
SOUTBAHPT&N.	Hil1P8B1RB   Co•

.Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,654 ; value of apples, $2,018; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 461 ; value of pears, $486 ; all other trees cultivated for their  fruit, 82; value,  46; value  of Nuts  or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $898•
Sheep,  618;  value,  $2,472;  lbs.  of  Wool  produced,  2,987 ; value,
$2,109,
Horses, 288 ; value, $19,880; Oxen over four years old, 54:; Steen under four yeara old, 57 ; value of oxen and steers, , $7,086 ; Milch Cows, 420 ; Heifers, 141; value of cows and heifers, $20,000; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (11 Bulls, 8 Fu-row Cows,) $:>15; gallons of Milk sold, 11,625 ; value, $2,089 ; lbs.·of Butter sold, 87,650; value, $14,619 ; lbs. of Cheese, 110; value, $17.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 111,885; value, $10,884. Pork, dressed, lbs., 86,180 ; value, $12,614. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 12,270 ; value, $2,000. VeaI, dressed, lbs., 8,285 ; value, $860.
Swine, 202 ; value, $8,108 ; value of Poultry sold, $464 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,111; lbs. of Honey, 46 ; value, $12 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 2 ; value, $1; value of unenumerated articles of farm produce, $1,000.


SOUTHAMPTON.

Blacksmith Shops, 4: ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done,
• $1;500; cap., $800 ; ban emp., 4.
Boots, pain of all  kinds  m'd,  60 ; Shoes, pain  of  all kinds  m'd,  50 ;
gross  value  of  stock  used,  $175 ;  value  of   boots  and  shoes m'
$350; cap., $175 ; m. emp., 1.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 400,000; value, $2,000 ; cap., $700; bands emp., 6.
Whip Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; dozens of whips
m'd, 600 ; value, $4,500 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 8.
Friction  Matches,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value  of stock used,
$600 ; gross of matches m'd, 500; value, $900 ; cap.,$600; m. emp.,
2 ; f. emp., 2.	·
India Rubber Goods, establishments for m. of,  1; value  of  stock  used,
$6b,OOO ; value  of  Elastic  Cords  and   Braids   m'd,   $108,000 ; cap.,
$100,000 ; m. emp., 12 ; f. emp., 45.
Distilleries, 2 ; value of stock used, $150 ; bbls. of Liquon  distilled, 6·; value, $672 ; cap., $600 ; bands emp., none, except a few days in the year.
•

1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS• .	81S
IIAKPSBIBB   Co.	SoUTHAlllPTOH.

Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 800,000; value,
$8,500 ; Shingles prepared for market, S00,000 ; value, $900 ; cap.,
$8,000 ; hands emp., 10.	·	.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,000 ; value, $6,000 ; cap., S2,000 ; hands emp., 20.	·
Charcoal m'd, bush., 2,000 ; value, $860 ; cap.,$100 ; Juipds emp., 2.
Farms, 192 ; acres, U,868 ; value, including Buildings, $!93,240 ; acree
improved, 8,jOO ; persons emp., 875. Unimproved Land, acres, 8,000.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 2,000.
Woodland, acres, 1,500 ; value, $60,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 400 ; btl.Sh., 8,000; value, $10,000. Wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 100 ; value, $200.
Rye, acres, 200 ; bush., 2,000 ; value, $2,000. Buckwheat, acres, 50 ; bush., 500 ; value, $400. Oats, acres, 800; bush., 5,000 ; value, $8,000.
Potatoes, acres, 150; bush., 15,000 ; value, $7,000.
Turnips, cultivated as a field crop, 10 ; bush., 2,000 ; value, $400.
Onions, acres, .2 ; bush., 200 ; value, $200.	·
Carrots, acres, 5 ; bush., 1,000 ; value, $500.
Cabbage, acres, 5 ; value, $500. Winter Squash, acres, 2 ; value,  $200.
Tobeooo, acres, 50 ; lbe., 75,000 ; value, $12,500.
English Mowiug, acres, 1,500 ; tons Euglish hay, 2,000 ; value, $50,000• .
Wet Meadow or    wale mown, acres, 700;  tons of wet meadow or  swale
hay, 700 ; value, $9,000.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,000; value of apples, $10,000. Sheep,  670;   value,  $8,850;  lbs.  of  Wool  produced,   2,010 ; value,
$1,005.
Hones, 229 ; value, $20,000 ; Oxen over four years old, 90 ; Steen under four years old, 197 ; value of oxen °and steers, $14,000 ; Milch Cowe, 461 ; Heifets, 180 ; value, $22,000 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 5,000 ; value, $12,000.
Beet; dreued, lbe., 40,000 ; value, $4,000. Pork, dreued, lbs., 75,000 ; value, $8,000. Mutton, lbs., 10,000 ; value, $1,000.
Veal, dreaaed, lbe.,  ,000 ; value, $400.
Swine, 800 ; value, $8,000 ; value of Poultry aold, $100; value of Eggs aold, $800 ; lbe. of Honey, 800; value, $75.
40
•

IH	STATISTICS OF THE	(1866.
luxP811DlB Co.


WARE.
Cotton Mille, 8 ;.spindles, 21,2«; cotton consumed, lbe., 1,500,000; gross value of stock used, $750,000 ; yards of cotton Cloth m'd, 6,000,000 ; cap., $500,000 ; m. emp., 100 ; £ emp., 500.
Woollen	2 ; sets of machinery, 15 ; lbs. of scoured wool consumed, 360,000 ; gross value of stock used, $500,000 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing m'd, 1,250,000 ; value, $1,250,000 ; cap.,· $300,000 ; m. emp., 222 ; f. emp., 167.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$400 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 5,000 ; value, $1,667;
cap., $625 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1.        ·
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments  for m.  or,  1;  harnesses m'd, 30 ; value, $1,000; value of stock used, $900 ; cap., $200 ; ha:nda emp., 2.
Marble and other kinda of  Stone, establishments  for  m. ot, 1; value  ot
stock   used,  $1,000 ;  value  of   Monuments   and  Gravestones   m'd,
$3,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., .
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. o(, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; lbs. of tallow candles made, 8,000 ; value, $500 ; cap..
$600 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for m. or,  1; value of stock used,  $500 ; bbls. of soft. soap m'd, 200 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 1. Blacksmith Shops, 3 ; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of work done,
$10,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Brick  Yards,  1; bricks  m'd,  500,000 ; value,  $!,000; cap.,  $8,000 ;
hands emp., 7.
Gas, establishments for m. or, 1; value of stock used, $i,500 ; value of gas m'd, $4,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Bakeries, . 1;  value   of   stock   used,  $5,000 ;  value   of · Bread m'd,
$7,500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw Mills,  5 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 660,800 ; value,
$9,818 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 1,105,000; value, $2,769 ; value of all other Lumber, $1,500 ; cap., $30,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market,  cords,  1,668 ; value, $7,927;
cap., $300 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 223; acres, 20,788; value, including Buildings, $740,20! ; acres of land improved, 7,618; persons emp., 878.	·
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,376.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 1,887.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  IUSSACBUSETTS. 	315
H.ulPemu  Co.	W.iSL

Woodland,  acres, 2,181;  value, $68,820.
Indian Corn, acres, 814; bush., 10,422 ; value,  $10,422.
Wheat, acres, 12 ; bush., 290 ; value, $o80. Rye, acres, 184; bush., 2,828; value, $2,823. Buckwheat, 'acres, 158 ; bush., 900; value, $600. Oats, acres, 284 ; bush., 6,446 ; value, $3,228.
Herdsgrasa Seed, bush., 5; value, $17.
Clover Seed, bush., 2 ; value, $6.
Potatoes, acres, 192.; bush., 14,111; value, $7,681.
Tobacco, acres, 251; lbs., 88,810 ; value, $6,062.
English  Mowing, acres, 2,045 ; toDB of English  bay, 2,898 ; value,
$23,980.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 818; toDB of wet meado1r or awale
hay, 786 ; value, $4,000.	·
Apple-trees cultivated. for their fruit, 24,586 ; value of apples, $13,285 ; Peaz,.trees cultivated for their fruit, 404 ; value·of pears,  $77 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 122; value of fruit, $47 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $11.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 44 ; Merino Sheep, of differem grades, 87; all other kinda of sheep, 627 ; gross value, $2,42l> ; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 250 ; value, $116; lbe.of Merino wool, 475 ; value, $286; lbs. of all other wool produced, 890;,
value, $421.	.	•
Horses, 355 ; value, $18,115 ; Oxen over four years old, 144; Steers
under four years old, 100 ; value of oxen and steers, $14,74.'> ; Milch Cows, 692 ; Heifers, 97 ; value of cows and hei&rs, $25,525 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (98 Bulls and Stags,) $1,787; galloDB of Milk aold, 80,757 ; value, $8,506; lbs. Butter aold, 25,080; value, $5,061 ; lbe. of  Cheese, 57,410; value,  $7,211.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 75,000 ; value, $6,000. l>ork, dressed, lbs., 80,000 ; value, $8,000. Mutton, dresled, lbs., 4,000; value, $400. Veal, dressed, lbe., 8,000 ; value, $800.
Swine, 280 ;value, $8,205 ; value of Poultry sold, $300 ; value of Egp sold, \1,969 ; lbs. Honey, 568; value, $127; lbe. of Beeswu, [)7; value, $19 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $2,768•
•	•
816
STATISTICS  OF THE
(1865.
WILLIAHSBURG.

IIAHPSBIRE   Co.


WILLIAMSBURG.

Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 4,300 ; cap., $50,000.
Woollen Mills, 2 ; sets of machinery, 8; lbs. of scoured wool con­ sumed, 55,000 ; gross value of stock used, $75,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 90,000 ; value, $70,000 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 40,000 ; value, $20,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; m. emp., 23 ; f. emp., 15.
Silk Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $100,000 ; lbs. of sewing silk m'd, 12,000 ; value, $140,000 ; cap., $50000; m. emp., 15 ; f. emp., 40.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 15ff ; value, $15,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Planes, Moulding  Tools, &c., establishments  for  m.  of,  1; gross value
m'd, $25,000 ; v,-Iue of stock used, $18,000 ; cap., $10,000; hands emp., 10.
Brass Foundries, 1; value of stock used, $75,000 ;·value of general Brass Work m'd, $150,000;  cap., $50,000 ; hands emp., 60.
Button Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $3,000 ; gross of wood
buttons   and  ·button   moulds   m'd,  260,000 ;  "talue,  $15,500 ;   cap.,
$10,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 20.
Saddles, Harn888e8, and Trunks, establishments for m. of,  1; hameBBes
··d, 20 ; value, $870;  value of  stock used,  $850; cap., $600 ; hands
emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1 ; number of each m'd, 8 wagons and 8 other vehicles ; value, $600 ; value of stock used,  $100 ; cap., $100.
Master Builders, 2; Buildings erected, 6; value, $12,000 ; value of materials used, $8,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Blacksm_ith Shops, 2 ; value of  stock used, $800 ; value  of  work  done,
$2,500 ; cap., $1,800 ; hands emp., 4.
.Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $100.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; valut of tin ware m'd, $800 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. of Grain ground, 25,000 ; value, $87,500 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 50; value, $500 ; cap., $10,000; hands emp., 4. Tand Currying Establishi;nents,  1; value of stock  ustfl, $14,000 ;
Hides tanned and curried, 2,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried,
$20,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 4.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF HASSACHUSETTS .	817
HAMPSHIBB   Co.	WILL1il18BURG.

Boots,. pairs of  all kinds m'd, 225;  Shoes, pairs of ·all kinds  m.'d,  100 ;
gross  value  of  stock  used,  $1,700 ; value. of  boots  and  shoes m'd,
$2,250 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Saw  Mills, 2 ; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for  tnarket, 500,000 ; value,
$10,000 ; Shingles prepared for market, 50,000 ; value, $200 ; value of all  other  lumber,  (75,000  feet  Dimension  Stuff,)  $1,500 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 1,716; value, $8,849. Charcoal m'd, bush., 3,000 ; value, .$600 ; hands emp., 1.
Farms, 200 ; acres, 16,849 ; value, including Buildings, $496,550 ; &Cft'8
improved, 13,028 ; pel'80ns emp., 177. Unimproved Land, acres, 3,225. · Unimprovable Land, acres, 433.
Woodland, acres, 3,029 ; value, $78,630.
Indian Corn, acres, 115!; bush., 3,478 ; value,$6,260. Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 25 ; value, $65.	' Rye, acres, 18; bush., 220 ; value, $440.
Buckwheat, acres, 2!; bush., 53 ; value, $66.25. Oats, RCres, 32 ; bush., 721; value, $721.
Potatoes, acres, 94 ; bush., 9,005 ; .value, $4,502.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8 ; bush., 1,447 ; value, $578. Onions, acres, l ; bush.,  24 ; value, $48.
Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 208 ; value, $54. Cabbage, acres, l ; value of product, $27•
.Asparagus, acres, l ; value of product, $90. Tobacco,  acres,  67 ; lbs.,  105,958 ;  value, $20,278.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1;867 ; tons  of  English  bay,  2,132 ; value,
$21,320.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 86 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 86; value,  $258.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,162 ; value of apples, $5,949 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 50 ; value of pears, $45 ; value of Peaches and Quinces sold, $50.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 358 ; all other kinds of sheep, 1,205 ;
gross value of  all  sheep,  $6,369 ; lbs.  Merino  Wool,   1,922 ; value,
$1,,60 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 4,435 ; value, $3,533.
Horses, 231; value, $26,645 ; Oxen over four years old, 99 ; Steen under four years old, 69 ; value of oxen and steers, $12,119 ; Milch Cows, 407 ; Heifers, 119 ; value of cows and heifers, $18,515; value of Neat  Stock  oot  embraced above, (285 Beef Cows and  young
818	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
WEBTBA.KPTON,	H.U{P8BlllB        Co.

stock,) $19,235; galloDB of Milk sold, 8,689 ; value, $2,204 ;, lbs, of Butter  sold,  18,587 ; value,  $6,486; lbs. of  Cheese,  2,100 ; value,
$440.	.	.
dressed, lbs., 16,965 ; value, $1,909.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 49,178 ; value, $8,860.
:Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,100 ; value, $112.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,895; value, $167.
Swine,  110 ; value,  $1,585 ; value of Poultry  sold, $314; value of
Eggs sold, $764 ; lbs. of Honey, 105; value, $80.
Serew Drivers, Mincing Knives, Cake Turn,n, and other small wares, establishments for m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $5,000 ; value m'd, $15,000 ; cap., $10,000; bands emp., 20.


WESTHAMPTON .

Fur and Leather Gloves and Mittens. establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $200 ; pairs m'd, 600 ; value, $500 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.	·
:Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 8 ; value, $1,200; value of mate­
rials used,  $00 ; bands  emp., 6.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; value of  stock used,  $200 ; value  of  work done,
$600 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $400; Hides tanned, 300 ; hides tanned and curried, 250 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $900 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 2.
Planing Mills. and Establishments fur m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 1; value of work done, $1,200; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp.,  2•
.Boxes, establishments fur m. of, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of tooth powder boxes made, $900 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1. Saw Mills, 8 ;  feet  of Lumber prepared  for market,  275,000 ; value
$4,125 ; Laths and Staves prepared for market, 58,000; value, $569 ; value of all other Lumber, (Railroad Ties, &c.,) $385 ; cap., $8,900 ; bands emp., 5.	·
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market,  cords,  1,631; value, $1'),880.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 8,000 ; value, $600.
Farms, 97 ; acres, 15,150 ; value, including Buildings, $818,865 ; acres
improved, 7,874; persons emp., 129.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 2,668.
Unimprovable  Land, acres,  1,949.  ·
Woodland, acres, 1,788 ; value, $26,854.	,
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF HASSACHUSE'ITS,	319
lullP8BIBB Co.	Woanmr&TON, Indian Com. acres, 88 ; bush., 2,219 ; value, $3,858.
Rye, acres, 25 ; bush., 221 ;·value, $358,
Buckwheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 62 ; value, $62. Oats, acres, H ; bush., 431; value, $886. Potatoes, acres, 77 ; bash., 8,788 ; value, $4,480.
Tobacco, acree, 19 r lbs., 26,990 ; value, $4,161.
English  ?,lowing,  acres,  700 ;  tone  of    Engliah  hay,   766;    value,
$20,409.
Wet Meadow or  Swale mown,	699 ; tone of wet meadow or ewale
hay, 582 ; value, $9,058.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,047 ; value of apples, $2,920 ; Pear-trees cultivated  for  their  fruit,  27 ;  value  of  pears,  $86 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 48; value, $105;  value  of Note or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $40.
Merino  sheep,  of  diffe' rent  grades,  28 ; all other  kinda  of  Bheep, 604 ;
groee value of all sheep, $2,448 ; lbs. of Merino  wool,  69 ; value,
$88 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 2,038; value, $1,448.
Bones, 148 ; valae, $14,028 ; Oxen  over  four  years  old,  56 ; Steers Wider four years old, 43 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,528 ;  Milch Co,n, 802; Heifere, 76 ; value of oowe and heifers, $15,980 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (162 Calves, &c.,) $2,689 ; ga1. tons of  Milk  sold, 349; value, $85 ;lbs. of  BoUer  eold, 21,8o5; value,
.
dreeeed, lbs., 208,445; value, $20,787, Pork, dreued, lbs., 19,590 ; value, $3,485. Mutton, dreeeed, lbs.·10,100 ; value, $1,960. Veal, dre88ed, lbs., 16,500 ; value, $2,200.
Swine, 136 ; value, $2,720 ; value of Poultry eold, $6H ; value of Eggs sold, $346 ; Iba. of Honey, 200; value, $60; lbe. of Beeewu, 6 ; value, 8 ; value of unenumerated articles of farm produoe; 400 bble. Cider, $1,500; 1,200 lbs. Maple Sugar, $240,
Locust Wood, for Ship Pina, cords, 40 ; value, $1,000.


WORTHINGTON.

Blacbmith Shope, 2 ; value of stock 118ed, $600 ; value of work done,
Sl,800; cap., SI,000; haode emp., 2.
Flooring Milla, 1; bueh. of  Gnio groand, 2,600; .value, $4,000 ;
cap., $1,800 ; hande emp., 1,
820	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
WORTHINGTON,	HAHPsmas Co.

Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $30 ; coffins made, 15; value, $100 ; cap., $100; bands emp., 1.
Saw Milla, 10 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 420,000 ; value,
$4,200 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., part of the year, 10.
Farms, 154 ; acres, 16,348 ; value, including Buildings, $246,100; acres
improved, 16,348 ; pel'BOWI emp., 275. Woodland, acres, 8,077 ; value, $30,770.
Indian Com, acres, 103; bush., 8,465 ; value, $5,188.
Wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 98 ; value, $279. Barley, acres, 83; bh., 750 ; value, $1,125. Buckwheat, acres, 28 ; bush., 664 ; value, $664. Oat.a, acres, 65 ; bush., 2,086 ; value, $2,086. White Beans, bush., 151; yalue,  $302.
Potatoes, acres, 108; bush., 12,900 ; value, $6,450.
Ce.rrot.s, acres, 4; bush., 1,0,55 ; value, $264. Tobacco, acres, 1; lbs., 1,200; value, $240.
English  Mowing,  acres,  3,973 ;  tons of  English  hay, 8,066 ; value,
$86,792.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,972 ; value of apples, $2,560. Sheep, 2,835 ; value, $9,086 ; lbs. of Wool, 6,359 ; value, $5,087.
Horses, 248 ; value, $22,190 ; Asses and Mules, 16 ; value, $1,875 ; Oxen over four years old, 72 ; Steers under four years old, 268 ; value of oxen and steers, $15,000 ; Milch Cows, 415; heifers, 146; value of cows and heifers, $16,700 ; lbs. of Butter. sold, 2,675; value, $7,802 ; lbs. of Cheese, 900 ; value, $180.
Beef; dressed, lbs., 31,675 ; value, $2,534. Pork, dressed, lbs., 42,615 ; value, $6,892. Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,405 ; value, $84.
Swine, 50 ; value, $500 ; value of Poultry sold, $711 ; value of Eggs sold, $704 ; lbs. of Honey, 200; value, $50 ; Iba. of Maple Sugar, 41,280 ; value, $8,546•
.Plane Handles, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $75 ; value of handles made, $700; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 2.
Bedsteads and Bench Screws, establishments for m.  of,  1; value  of  stock used, $300 ; value of bedsteads and 1!Cl'eWB made, $8,000 ; cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Essential Oils, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value.of oils extracted, $1.,500 ; cap., $200 ; bands emp. part of the year, 8.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	821
MmotEsEx  Co.	ACTON.

Children's Sleds and Wagons, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $850 ; value of sleds and wagons made, $3,300; cap.,
$3,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Baskets, establishments for m. of, 4; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of baskets made, $5,875 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 9.
Sieve Rims and Drum Shells, establishments ·for m. of, 1 ; value of stock  used,  $500 ;  value  of   rims  and  shells  made,  $3,800 ; cap.,
$2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Broom, Rake, and Fork Handles, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; value of handles made, $2,500 ; cap., $3,500 ; bands emp., 2.



M I D D L E SE X	C OU N T Y .

ACTON.
Dyeing Flannel, establishments for, 1; value of stock used, $4,000; value of work done, $20,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; f. emp., 6. Yam Manufactory, 1; gross value of stock used, $38,000 ; lbs. of yam m'd and not made into cloth, 27,888 ; value, $41,750; cap., $8,000 ;
m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 6.
Harnesses, establishments for m. of, 2 ; harn,esses m'd, 40 ; value, $1,875;
value of stock used, $550 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $150 ; value of wheels m'd, $350 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp. six months, 1.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value
of clothing m'd, $10,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 20.
Blacksmith  Shops, 5 ; value of  stock  used,  $1,480 ; value of work  done,
$3,200; cap., $1,800 ; hands emp., 7.
Powder Mills, 1; (suspended malting powder the last year, to make extensive repairs ;) cap., $35,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Tm Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,800; value of other work done, $800 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 6,645 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds• m'd, 12,000 ; gross value of stoclt used, $32,677 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $48,677;  cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 80; f. emp., 10.
'1
822	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
ACTON,	MIDDLESEX   Co.

Casks, establishments for m. of, 6 ; value of stock used, $1,510 ; casks m'd, 4,250 ; value, $5,050 ; cap., $1,650 ; hands emp., 7, and 4 for four months.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; coffins made, 50 ; value, $600 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp. four months,  1.
Planing Mills and establidhments for m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 1; planed and ·matched for outside parties, 125,000 feet ; value of all other work done, $2,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emj,., 4.
Boxes,'establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of wooden boxes made, $2,400; cap., $1,500 ; 111. emp., 1.
Razor Strops, manufactories of, 1 ; value of stock used, $100 ; strops m'd, !)00 ; value, $400; cap,, $50 ; handl' emp. six mouths, 1.
Saw Mills,  4 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  775,000 ; value,
$11,625 ; Shingles prepared for market, 45,000 ; value, $135 ; cap.,
$5,100 ; hands  emp. 6 months,  5.
Firewood  prepared  for market, ootds, 1,685 ; value, $7,373.50.
Lumber prepared for market, 121,500 feet ; value, $2,010.50.
Farms, 157 ; acres, 11,400 ; value; including Buildings, $681,650; acres
of  land  improved, 5,360;  persons  emp.,  215.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,986. Unimprovable Land, acres, 107. Woodland, acres, 2,638 ; value, $75,805.
Indian Com, acres, 300 ; bush., 8,280 ; value, $9,108.
Rye, acres, 82!; bush., 303 ; value, $354.08. Barley,.acres, 16}; bush., 251; value, $251. Buckwheat, acres, 2}; bush., 34 ; value, $68. Oats, acres, 125; bush., 2,455 ; value, $1,846.
·    otatoes, acres,  141 ; bush., 10,810 ;  value, $5,405.
Turnips  cultivated  as a  field  crop,  acres, 20 ; bush., 1,899 ; value,
$475.
Onions, acres, n ; bush., 9 ; value, $25.
Carrots, acres, lf ; bush., 672 ; value, $336.
Winter Squash, value, $25.
Beets, bush., 40.
Cranberries, acres, 10!; bush., 15 ; value, $50.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,776 ; tons  of  English  hay,  1,573 ; value,
$31,460.
Wet :Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 890; tons of wet meadow or swala bay, 730 ; value,  $365.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	328
M11>DLESEX  Co.	ASHBY.

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 31,570 ; value of apples,. $14,868 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,5H ; value of pears, $112; all other trees cultivated for their fruit; (41 Cherry, 14 Quince, 9 Plum, 2,736 Peach,) 2,800; value of fruit, (peaches,) $860 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered  for market, $1,557.
Sheep, 70 ; value, $257 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 3251 ; value, $298.
Horses, 229 ; value, $19,735 ; Oxen over four years old, 93; Steers under four years old, 31; value of oxen and steers, $8,270 ; Milch Cows, 738; Heifers, 78 ; value of cows and heifers, $30,112 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (2 Bulls,) $60 ; gallons of Mille sold, 107,668 ; value, $17,944.67 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 11,370;  value, $4,548 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 150 ; value, $15.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 53,250; value, $5,325. Pork, dressed, lbs., 68,130 ; value, $13,626. Mutton,  d, value, $200.
Veal, dressed, value,  $4,048.
Swine, 170 ; value, $2,649.75 ; value of Poultry sold, $822.78; value of Eggs sold, $787.45 ; lbs. of Honey, 115; value, $33.50 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 7 ; value, $4; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, (Grapes, $882, Strawberries, $420, Blackberries, $150, Tomatoes, $75, Melons, $50, Currants, $10,Asparagus, $285,) $1,872 ; Beans, bushels, 525; value, $1,812.
Hoop Factories, 8 ; value of  materials  used,  $1,550;  hoops  m'd,  doz.,
2,750 ; value, $5,751; cap., $2,050 ; hands emp., 7.
Pencils, establishments for m. of, 1; gross m'd, 10,185; value, $15,275;
value of stock used, $4,800; cap., $3,200 ; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 20.


ASHBY.

Blackamith· Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 3.
Boots, pairs of  all kinds m'd, 200 ; Shoes,  pairs  of  all kind!! m'd,   200;
gross value  of  stock used,  $1,500 ; value  of  boou  and  shoes m'd,
$1,800 ; m. emp., 8.
Pail and Tub :llanufactories, 2; value of stock used;  $14;000; tube  m'd, 19,800 ; pa1i s m'n, 15,000 ; value, $8,800; cap., $3,000; handa emp., 8.
Saw Mills,  5 ;  feet of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  80,000 ; ?alue,
$3,600 ; Shingles prepared for market, 100,000; value, $300 ; handa
emp., 5.
STATISTICS OF THE	(1866.
ASHBY,	MIDDLESEX   Co.

Firewood .and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 1,500 ; value,  $6,000.
Farms, 200; acres, 13,000 ; value, incluc:Ung Buildings, $885,082 ; acres improved,  6,832 ;  persou  emp., 300.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,560. Unimprovable Land, acres, 00. Woodland, acres, 1,429 ; value, $47,000.
Indian Com, acres, 165 ; bush., 5,259 ; value, $5,259. Wheat, acres, 22; bush., 850 ; value, $700. .
Rye, acres, 17 ; bush., 231 ; value, $250. Barley, acres, 77 ; bush., 1,674 ; value, $1,674. Oats, acres, 50 ; bush., 1,450; value, $870.
Potatoes, acres, 108 ; bub., 14,038; value, $7,019.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acree, 4 ; bush., 1,000 ;·Talue, $250. Carrots, acres, 10 ; bush., 6,000;  value, $1,500.
Cabbage, acres, 1; value of products, $500. Winter Squash, acres, 2 ; value, $700.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2 ; bush., 800; value, $400. Cranberries, acres, 2; bUl!h., 25 ; value, $75.	·
English Mowing, acres, 1,800 ; tons English hay, 1,468 ; value, $21,945.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 600 ; tons of _wet meadow or swale
bay, 500 ; value, $5,000.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,446 ; value of apples, $2,600 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their frui 159 ; value of pears, $50 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $2,000.
Sheep, 219 ; value, $1,825; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 985 ; value, $493.
Horses, 213 ; value, $17,315 ; Oxen over four years old, 71; Steers under four years old, 76 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,850 ; Milch Cows, 450 ; Heifers, 115 ; value  of  cows  and heifers,  $18,700; lbs. of Butter  sold, 20,000 ; value,  $5,000.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 50,447 ; value, $4,035.76. Pork, dressed, lbs., 48,180 ; value, $4,300.
:Mutton, dressed, lbs., 700; value, $100. Veal, dressed, lbs., 17,570 ; value, $2,108.40.
ijwine, 180 ; value, $2,825 ; value of Poultry sold, $500 ; value of Eggs sold, $640 ; lbs. of Honey, 220 ; value, $7Ii.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSEITS.	826
MmnLESEX  Co.	ASHLAND.


ASHLAND.

Woollen  Mills,  1; sets  machinery,  2 ; yards of  Satinet m'd, 90,000;
value, $22,500 ; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 8.
Clothing, establishments for m. of,  1 ; value  of  stock used, $2,0QO ;
value of  clothing m'd, $3,000;  cap., $1,000 ; m. emp.; 2 ; £ emp., 3.
Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 2 ; value, $8,000; value of materials used, $5,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of work done,
$4,600 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of ware m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bosh. of Grain ground, 127,000 ; value, $148,600 ;·
cap., $37,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all .Jcinds m'd, 215,000; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 164,300 ; gross value of .stock used, $320,700 ; Yalue of boots and 11hoes.m'd, $608,300; cap., $88,000; m. emp., 871 ; £ emp., 48.	· Casks, establishments for m. of, 1; value  of 8tock used,  $600 ; casks
m'd, 2,639 ; value, $1,282.50 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of  stock used, $5,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $10,147 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 5.
Ice for market, establishments  for  preservation  of,  1; tons  preserved,
150 ; value, $200 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp.,  1.
Firewood and Bark, cords· prepared fur market, 595 ; value, $8,570 ;
cap., $1,800 ; hands en1p., 5.
Farms, 64 ; acres, 4,579 ; value, including Building8, $198,670 ; aeres
improved, 2,932 ; persons emp., 114.
Unimproved  Land, acres,   1,880.
Unimprovable  Land, acres,  267.
Indian Corn, acres, 112 ; bush., 3,440 ; value, $5,160.
Barley, acres, 6; bush., 188 ; value, $166. Oats, acres, 54 ; bush., 1,540 ; value, $1,540.
Potatoes, acrtl8, 47; bosh., 8,958 ; value, $8,958.
English  Mowing, acres, 963 ; tons of English hay, 804 ; value, $24,120.
Wet Meadow  or  Swale mown,  acres, 428 ; tons of  wet  meadow or
swale hay, 890; value,  $5,850.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,397 ; value of apples, $2,150; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,· UO ;  value  of  peara,  $114;  value  of   Nuts   or  Berries  cultivated  or  gathered  for  market,  $387.
Sheep, 8 ; value, $30.
826	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
BEDFORD.	MIDDLESEX  Co.

Horses, 167 ; value, $16,955 ; Oxen over four years old, 24; Steers under four years old, 12 ; value of oxen and steers, $2,630; Milch Cows, 301; Heifers, 59 ; value of cows and heifers,  $15,780 ; gallons of  Milk  sold, 28,000;  value,  $4,480 ;  lbs. of  Butter sold,
.J3,300 ; value, $4,655.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 31,800 ; value, $3,756. Pork, dressed, lbs., 34,150 ; value, $5,464. Veal, dressed, lbs., 12,400 ; value, $1,488.
Swine, 97 ; value, $1,492 ; value of Poultry sold, $275 ; value of Eggs sold, $125.
Mill for Grinding Emery, 1; valne of stock used, $61,776 ; value of emery, $88,000; cap., $35,000 ; m. emp., 10•
•

BEDFORD.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 2 ; value ·of stock used, $225 ; value of  wheels m'd, $1,000;  cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of work done,
$1,200; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 3.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $150 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 1.
Grist  Mills,  1; bush. of Grain ground, 10,000;  value, $17,000.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 200 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 10,341; gross value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, 9,166; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 18 ; f. emp., 18.
Saw Mills, 1; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 100,000 ; value,
$18,000;  cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood prepared  for market, cords, 1,258 ; value, $5,137.
Farms, 92 ; acres, 6,832 ; value, including Buildings, $267,880 ; acres improved, 8,831; persons emp., 132.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,457. Unimprovable Land, acres, 4. Woodland, acres, 457 ; value, $28,340.
Indian Corn, acres, 158.; bush., 3,037; value, $4,817. Sweet Corn, bbls., 100 ; value, $275.
Rye, acres, 25 ; bush., 288 ; value, $441. Barley, acres, 9 ; bush., 76; value, $104.
Buckwheat, acres, f ; bush., 6 ; value, $10. Oats, acres, 26; bush., 889 ; value, $349.
Potatoes, acres, 98 ; bush., 5,672;  value,  $8,950.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	827
MIDDLESEX  Co.	BELMONT.

Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 4 ; bush., 2,850 ; value, $668. Onions, acres, i; bush., 45 ; value, $50.
Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 175 ; value, $150. Peas, acres, ll ; value, $125.
Winter Squash, acres, 2 ; value of productll, $175. Pickles, acres, 7t ; value of products, $890.
Beans, acres, 4 ; value of products, $800.
Cranbemes, acres, 15 ; bush., (no crop,) 8; value, $10.
English Mowing, acres, 1,188 ; tons English  hay, 918; value,   $24,825.
Wet	eadow or Swale mown, acres, 828 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 605 ; value, $7,768.
Apple-trees ·cultivated for their fruit, 9,540 ; value of apples, $1,711; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,186 ; value of peal'S, $858 ; all other trees cultivated for the fruit, 182 ; value of fruit, $200 ; value of  Strawberries, $115.
Sheep, 4 ; value,. $28 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 18 ; value, $9.
Horses,  127 ; value,  $10,490;  Oxen  over  four  years  old,  86 ; value,
$2,925 ; Milch Cows, 447 ; Heifel'S, 16; value of cows and heifers,
$20,125; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (24 Yearlings, 5 Bulls,) $589; galloDB of Milk sold, 99,250; value, $17,887 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 1,525 ; value, $588;  lbs. of  Cheese, 100;  value,  $15.
Bee( dressed, lbs.,161,500 ; value, $16,525. Pork, dressed, lbs., 48,290 ; value, $8,485.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 15,920;  value, $1,176.	.
Swine, 116 ; value,  $2,176 ; value  of Poultry  sold, $U6 ; value of
Eggs sold, $500 ; lbs. of Houey, 147 ; value, $49.


BELMONT.

Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value  of  work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
for market, establishments for preservation o( 4 ; tons preserved, 60,800 ; value, $80,400 ; cap., $20,000 ; bands emp., 150.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 12,0Qe ; value, $800; bands emp., 8.
Farms, 76; acres, 2,885 ; value, including Buildings, $799,741 ; acres improved, 1,5441; pel'SODB emp., 880.
Unimproved Land, acres, 885.
Woodland, acres, 282!; value, $10,895.	• Indian Corn, acres, 28t ; bush., 980; value, $1,440.
Rye, acres, 84:; bush., 1,140 ; value, $1,925.
' '
·828	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
BILLERICA.	MIDDLESEX.   Co.

Potatoes, acres, 5It ; bush., 5,500 ; value, $6,545.
Tunups cultivated as field crop, acres, 19!; bush., 8,000 ; value, $1,905. Onions, bush., 17l ; bush., 4,000 ; value, $7,245.
Carrots, acres, J Of ; bush., 2,500; value, $2,210. Cabbage,  acres,·24i ; value of products, $6,885. Winter Squash, acres, 7li ; value of products, $11,88a.
Market  Gardening, acres, 544!; value of  products, $111,615.
Beets and other  esculent  vegetables,  a<;ree,  18!; bush., 3,20Q, value,
$2,750.
English   Mowing,  acres,  980f ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,470;  value,
$35,220.
Wet Meadow or Swt}le mown, acres, 288 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 238 ; value, $8,310.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,840 ; value of apples, $1,220; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,721 ; value of pears,  $4,880.
Sheep, 17 ; value, $500.
Horses, 829 ; value, $46,850 ; Steers under four  years  old, 84 ; value,
$3,875 ; Milch Cows, 206 ; Heifers, 18 ; value of cows and heifers,
$12,245 ; gallons of Milk sold, 84,850 ; value, $6,828; Iba. of Butter sold, 320;  value, $120.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 57,390 ; value, $6,870.
Swine, 325; value, $4,460; value of Poultry sold, $60 ; value of Eggs sold, $67 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, as follows : Radishes, Lettuce, Dandelioll!', under glass, $4,850 ; Straw­ berries, Raspberries, Currants, acres,·29t ; value, $20,585 ; Tomatoes, acres, 29! ; value,.$13,255; Cucumbers, acres, 19!; value, $7,800 ; Beans and  Peas, acres, 11; value, $1,900;  Celery, acres, 8l ; value,
$2,750.


BILLERICA.

Woollen Mills, 2 ;	ts of machinery, 12 ; lbs. of scoured wool con­ sumed, 428,000 ; gross value of stock used, $506,000 ; yards of Flannel m'd, 1,250,000 ; w,,lue, $715,000; m. emp., 78; f. emp., 54. Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $20,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $25,000;
·cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 1o.
Chemical Prepv.rations, estllblishments for the m.of, I ; value of stock used, $20,000; value  of chemical  preparations  m'd,  $76,000; cap.,
$25,000; hands emp. 15.
18.]	INDUSTRY O.F MASSACHUSETTS.	329
MmoLEsu   Co.	BILLERICA.

Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ; Talue
of  eoap m'd, $86,000;  cap., $10,000 ;  bds emp., 5.
:Master Builders, 8; Buildings erected, 8 ; value, $10,000; value of materials used, $7,200 ; bands emp., 8. ·
Blacksmith  Shope, 5 ; value of stock uaed, $1,270;  value of work   done,
$8,900 ; cap., $820 ; bands emp., 5.
Cabinet Manufaetoriee, 1 ; value of stock used, $5,800; value of chairs and oabinet ware m'd, $16,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dye Stuffs, establishments for the m. of,  1;  value, of stock used, $40,000; value of drugs, medicines, and  dye stuffs m'd, $250,000;  cap., $75,000 ; m. emp., 22.
Saw Mills,  2 ;  feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  485,000 ; value
$62,250 ; cap., $6,000; bands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 3,6 ; value, $14,828;
cap., $5,500 ; hands emp., 25.
Farms,   238; acres,  21,004 ;  value,  including  Buildings,   $755,993 ;
acres improved, 5,182 ; persons emp., 262.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,857. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 90. Woodland, acres, 4,260; value, $85,121:
Indian C<>m, acres, 255 ; bush., 6,668 ; value, $7;476.
Rye, acres, 81; bush., 768 ; value, $919. Barley, acres, 29 ; bush., 484 ; value, $449. Buckwheat, acres, 7 ; bush., 55 ; value, $52. Oats, acres, 53 ; bush., 979 ; value, $729.
Potatoes, acres, i93; bush., 15,333 ; value, $9,292.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 21 ; bush., 2,841 ; value, $1,088.
Onions, acres, 5f ; bush., 1,270 ; value, $1,622.
Carrots, acres, 4; bush., 266; value, $192. Cabbage, acres, 17 ; value of products, $1,617. Winter   Squash,  acres,  61;  value,  $781.
Beets and other  eseulent  vegetables,  acres,  21 ; bush.,  300 ; value,
$800.
Cranberries, acres, 89 ; bush., 679 ; value, $1,437.
English   Mowing,   acres,   1,688;    tons   of  English  bay,  1,585;  value,
$28,100.
Wet Meadow or SweJe mown, acres, 1,062 ; tons of wet meadow  or  ewale bay, 784 ; value, $8,020•
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 19,807 ; value of apples, $6,097 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,057 ; value of pears, $743 ; all value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $888.
u
880	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
BOXBOROUGH.	MIDDLESEX    Co.

Sheep, 24 ; value, $141 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 87 ; value, $80.
Horses, 220 ; value, $18,318 ; Oxen over four years old, 52 ; Steers under four years old, 19 ; value of oxen and steers, $5,775 ; Milch Cows, 483 ; Heifers, 123; value of cows and heifers, $22,088; value of  Neat  Stock  not  embraced  above, (43  Calves,  raised in  1865,)
$430 ; gallons of Milk sold, 44,814; value, $8,457 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,884 ; value, $2,867.
Beef, dreBBed, lbs., 103,700;  value, $13,144.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 46,550 ; value, $7,940. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 5,000 ; value, $400. Veal, dressed, lbs., 11,600 ; value, $1,290.
Swine, 268; value, $4,238; value of Poultry sold,  $619 ;  value  of Eggs sold, $773 ; lbs. of Honey, $485 ; value, $144 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 12 ; value, $7 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $2,798.


BOXBOROUGH.

Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; wagons m'd, 8 ; value, $125 ; value of stock used, $40 ; cap.,  $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock  used,  $60 ; value  of work done,
$200; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 800 ; value, $1,275 ; cap., $725 ; hands emp., 4.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 1,200 ; value, $480; cap., $250 ; hands emp., 1.
Farms, 70 ; acres, 5,868; value, including Buildings, $171,113; acres improved, 3,642 ; persons employed, 110.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,389. Unimprovable Land, acres, 159. Woodland, acres, 678 ; value, $22,420.
Indian Com, acres, 188 ; bush., 8,386 ; value, $5,471.20. Wheat, acres, 1l; bash., 28 ; value, $50.
Rye, acres, 7 ; bush., 112 ; value, S235.
Barley, acres, 13 ; bush., 205 ; value, $289.50. Oats, acres, 52 ; bush., 1,067 ; value, $1,008.65. · Potatoes, acres, 52 ; bush., 4,189 ; value, $2,095.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 14; bush., 815 ; value, $263. Hops, acres, ll ; lbs., 700 ; value, $112.
Cranberries, acres, 2 ; bush., 7 ; value, $21.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	881
MIDDLESEX  Co.	BRIGHTON.
English Mowing, acres, 609 ; tons of Englitih hay, 565; value, $15,820.
Wet Meado or Swale mown, acres, 584 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 4:10 ; value, $6,150.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,470 ; value of apples, $2,150; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 294 ; value of pears, $68 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,899 ; value of  fruit,..$775 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $799.
Sheep, 41; value, $259 ; lbs. of Wool, 240 ; value, $144.
Horses, 81 ; value, $5,805 ; Oxen over four years old, 26 ; Steers under four years old, 8 ; value of oxen and steers, $2,042 ; Milch Cows, 887 ; Heifers, 6 ; value of cows and  heifers,  $14,650;  value  of Neat Stock not embraced above, (6 Colts, 84: Yearlings,) $1,006 ; gallons of Milk sold, 54,107 ; value, $9,789.26 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,215; value,  $2,607.50.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 12,669 ; value, $1,488.59. Pork, dressed, lbs., 28,846 ; value, $8,401.90. Veal, dresl!ed, lbs., 20,895 ; value, $1,962.
Swine, 88 ; value, $621 ; vaiue of Poultry sold, $807 ; value of Eggs sold, $257 ; lbs. of Honey, 16 ; value, $5.28; value of unenumerated articles of  Farm Produce, $260.


BRIGHTON.

Cordage Manufactories, 5 ; value of stock used, $8,894: ; lbs. of small and tarred cordage m'd, 59,400 ; value, $12,520; cap., $1,100 ; hands emp., 11.
Tallow  Candles,  establishments  for m. of,  1 ; value  of  stock  used,
$88,891.84 ; lbs. of tallow candles made, 805,249 ; value, $48,839.84 ;
cap., $80,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Sperm, Whale, Lard, or Linseed Oil, establishments for m. of, 2; gross value of stock consumed, $118,780; gallons of sperm oil m'd, 2,540; value, $4,600 ; gallons of whale oil m'd, 8,600 ; value, $12,600; gal­ lons of lard oil m'd, 44,678 ; value, $84,591.4:2 ; lbs. of stearine m'd, 120,000 ; value, $25,000 ; cap., $85,000; hands emp., 14.
Master Builders, 8; Buildings erected, 8 ; value, $7,000; value of materials used, $5,000 ; handa emp., 4.
Blacksmith Shope, 4 ; value of stock used, $8,751) ; value of work done,
$11,300 ; cap., $2,050 ; hands emp., 11.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of tin ware m'd, $100 ; cap., $50.
882	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
BRIGHTON.	MmnLESEX    Co.

Varnish, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $150,000 ; gallons of varnish m'd, 56,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 178 ; ·shoes,  pairs  of all  kinds  m'd,  26 ;
gross value of stock used,  $1,198 ; value of boots  and shoes  m'd,
$2,069 ; cap., $175 ; m. emp., 5.
Planing Mills, and establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 1; value of work done, $4,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1 ; tons preserved, 5,000 ; value, $15,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 10.	-
Farms, 3'6 ; acres,  699 ; value, including Buildings, $280,460 ; acres
improved, 425 ; persons emp., 80. Unimproved Land, acres, 183.
Unimprovable  :&nd, acres, 58.
Indian Com, acres, 28 ; bush., 1,265; value, $1,920. Rye, acres, 9l ; bush., 190 ; value, $868.40.
Potatoes, acres, 38f ; bush., 3,471; value, $5,801.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field  crop, acres,  18f ; bush.,  2,685; value,
$915.
Onions, acres, 1; bush., 890 ; value, $740. Carrots, acres, 2f ; bush., 640; value, $325. Cabbage,  acres,  241 ; value, $4,020.
Winter Squash, acre:s, 16 ; value, $1,876.
Market Gardening, acres, 190 ; value of products,  $29,094.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, 3!; bush., 595; value, $612. English Mowing, acres, 214 ; tons of English hay, 275 ; value, $8,465.
Wet  Mead or Swale mown, acres,	; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 63!; value, $1,281.
Sal Marsh mown, acres, 55 ; tons of salt hay, 78 ; vain $1,095. Apple-trees  cultivated for their fruit, 2,835 ; value of apples,  $489 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4897 ; value of pears, $955-; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 890 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $1,845.
Horses, 407 ; value, $78,030 ; Milch Cows, 104 ; Heifen, 1; value of cows and heifers, $6,685; gallons of Milk sold, 6,295; value, $1,320.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 22,400,000 ; value, $2,316,860. Pork, dressed, lbe., 4,774,200 ; value, $662,98. Mutt.on, dressed, lbs., 6,508,078 ; value, $750,568. Veal, dressed, lbe., 86,500 ; value, $11,085.
Value of  unenumerated  articles of  Farm  Produce,  $5,000.
Neatsfoot Oil, Bone, and Glue Stock, establishments for m. of, 1; value
. of articles m'd, $7,227.50 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 15.
1865.]	INpUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	888
MIDDLJtHX   Co.	BURLINGTON.

Slaughter Houses, 34 ; C'ALttle slaugl!tered, 25,088 ; Sheep slaughtered, 170,517 ; Swine slaughte 23,781; Calvea slaughtered,  1,200 ; eap., $255,942; hands emp., 122.


BURLINGTON.

Piano-fortes, establiahmente for the m. of detatcbed part.s of, 1; value m'd,  $10,000;  value of  stock  used,  $2,000 ; cap., $500.
Saw Mills, 1;  feet of  lumber  prepared  fur market,  20,000 ;  value,
$HO.
Firewood and Bark prepared fur market, cords, 2,680 ; value, $9,366.
hands emp., 27.
Fanns, 105; acres, 7,184!; value of eame,including Buildings, $880,801 J
acrea of land improved, 2,688\ ; persons emp., 815.
Unimproved  Land, acrea, 3,5281.	·
Woodland, acrea, 976f ; value,  $47,663.
Indian Com, acrea, 125; bush., 8,750 ; value, $4,220.
Wheat, acrea, 1l; bush., 27 ; ,·alue, $54.
Rye, acres, 85 ; bush., 350 ; value, $898. Barley, acrea, 2; buah., 80 ; value, $80. Buckwheat, acres, 8; buah., 30 ; value, $80. Oata, acrea, 6; buah., 120 ; value, $90.
Potatoes, acrea, 65 ; bush.,  6,500 ; value,  $3,900.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field crop,  acres,  86 ; bush., 10,800 ; value,  ·
$2,700.
Onions, acres, 8 ; buah., 1,200; value, $1,200. Ou-rots, acres, 6 ; bush., 1,800 ; value, $600. Cabbage, acrea, 8; value, $1,600.
Wmter Squash, acres, 25 ; value, $2,500.
Beets aod 'btber	nt  vegetables,  acrea,  6 ; bub.,  2,400 ; value,
$1,200.	.
Cnnes, acres, 5 ; bush., 500;  value,  $750.
Eoglieh  Mowing,   acres,  848 ;  tons   of   Engliah    hay,   726;   value
$17,150.	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acrea, 4-lSf ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  286 ; value,  $2,860.
Apple-trees cultivated fur their fruit, 4,465 ; value of apples, $815 ; Pear-trees cultivated fur their fruit, 110; value of pean, $110, valae of Nwa or Berriea cultivated or gatllered for market, $8,000•

•
884	STATISTICS  OF THE	•	[1865
CA.IIBRIDGE.	MIDDLESEX    Co.
Sheep,  26 ;  value,  $146 ; lbs. of	ool J>roduced,  180;  value, $78. Horses,   149 ; value,  $14,685;  Oxen  ovlr  four  years   old,   45 ; value,
S4,455 ; Milch Cows, 274 ; Heifers, 28 ; value of oows and heifers,
$12,736 ; value of Neat  Stock not embraced above,  (30  yearlings,)
$450 ; gallons of Milk sold, 73,660 ;·value, $7,366 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 2,500 ; value, $625.
Beef, dressed, lbe., 14,000 ; value, $1,000. Pork, dressed, lbs., 88,180; value, $4,576. Veal, dressed, lbs., 2,500 ; value, $250.
Swine, 112; value, $2,823 ; value of Poultry sold, $200 ; value of Eggs sold, $400 ; value of unenumerated articles of Fann Produce, $6,747.
Pickles, acres, 39!; bush., 1,000 ; value, $2,747. Tomatoes, acres, 6 ; value, $2,400.
Peas, acres, 5 ; value, $700. Asparagus, acres, 2 ; value, $600. Beans, bush., 150 ; value, $300.


CAMBRIDGE.

Locomotives, Steam Engines, and Boilers, establishments for m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $148,000 ; number built, (2 looomotives, 158 boilers, 34 tanks, 20 steam engines,) 214 ; value, $287,850.87 ; cap.,
$73,000 ; hands emp., 108.
Mechanics' Tools m'd and not elsewhere enumerated, gross value, $2,500 ; value of  stock used, $1,500 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 3.
Iron Railing, Iron Fences, and Iron Safes, shops for m. of, 1 ; value of st.ock used, $20,000 ; value of iron railing, iron fences, and iron safes m'd, $50,000 ; cap., $20,000; hands emp., 20.
BraBS Foundries, 8 ; value of stock used, $109,451; lbe. of Tops for Inkstands, Gas and Water Castings, m'd, 233,700 ; value, $189,552 ; cap.,$50,000 ;  m. emp., 48 ; f.emp., 11.
Gas, Oil, and Kerosene Fixtures, and  Lamps,  1; value  of stock used,
$18,483 ; articles m'd, 109,700 ; value, $56,200 ; cap., $55,000 ; bands emp., 64.
Glass Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $485,200 ; tons of Tum­ blers, Lamps. Bottles, Plate!!, Fancy Glass, &c., m'd, about 2,100; value, $896,650 ; cap., $650,000;  m. emp., 601; £ emp., 52.
Chemical Preparations, establishments for m. of, 8; value of stock used,
$177,000 ; value  of  chemical  preparations  m'd, $290,000 ; cap.,
$70,000; bands emp., 27.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	885
:MIDDLESEX Co.	CillBRIDGL

Organs, Melodeons, and Hannoniums, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,000 ; Instruments m'd, 7 ; value, $12,200; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Printing and  Newspaper Establishments,  6 ; value  of  stock. usM,
$459,300; newspapers printed, (Cambridge Chronicle,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value, $3,500 ; cap., (newspaper,)·$1,800 ; Books printed, volumes, 1,422,815 ; value, $380,000; value of all other printing done, $4,000 ; cap., $149,000 ; m. emp., 240 ; f. emp., 123.
Bookbinderies, 8 ; value of stock. used, $42,000 ; value of bookbinding done, $147,000 ; cap., $37,500 ; m. emp., 53; £ emp., 88.
Book-publishing Establishments, 1; books published, 10,461; value, exclusive of 008t of printing and binding, $6,941.54 ; cap., $6,184.88 ;
m. emp., 4.
Type  and  Stereotype  Foundries,   1; value  of stock  used,  $15,000 ;
value of types, electrotypes, and stereotype plates  m'd, $20,000;  cap.,
$7,000 ; m. emp., 8.	•
Sewing-Machine Case Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $7,000 ; sewing-machine cases m'd, 4,416 ; value, $25,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 4 ; value of stock used,
$2,800 ;  daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,  59,200 ;  value,
$14,200; cap., $6,700 ; m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 4.
Looking-Glassea and Picture Frames, manufactories of,  1; value of stock used, $200 ; framea m'd, 300 ; value, $1,000;  cap.,  $300 ; hands  emp., 1.
Mattresses of all kinds and materials, manufactories of, 1; value of stock  used,  $750; hair  mattresses  made,  75 ; value,  $1,500; cap.,
$100; m. emp., 1.
Brush ManufactorieR, 8; value of stock used, $26,193 ; brushes m'd, doz., about 16,000 ; value, $51,331; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 72 ; £ emp., 9.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m.. of, 4 ; harnessea m'd, 98 ; value, $5,600 ; value of stock. used, $2,948 ; cap., $1,900 ; hands emp., 10.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 5 ; number m'd, 1 chaise, 2 wagons, 2 carts, 2 sleighs, 12 street cars, 10 close cars, 4. open cars, 37 carriages,· and wagons, sleighs, &c., 12 other vellicles ; value, $61,649,32 ; value of stock used, $14,454.89 ; cap.. $19,500 ; hands emp., 86.
Carriage  Wheels,  manufactories  of,  2 ; value  of stock  used,  ·$175;
wheels m'd, 48; value, $1,000 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 8.
886	•	STATISTICS OF Tiffi	[1865.
CAMBRIDGE.	MIDDLESEX    Co.

Confectionery, el!tablisbments for m. of, 3; value of stock used, $12,900; lbs. of confectionery made, 98,200 ; vah,e, $80,350 ; cap., $4,800 ; m. emp., 17 ; £ emp., 8.
Port Monnaies, Pocket Books, and Wallets, establishments  for  m. of, 1; dozens m'd, 720 ; value, $4,000; value of stock used, $1,000 ; cap., $500 ; m: emp., 1; f. emp.,  8.
Photograph Albums, manufactories of, 1 ; value of stoek used, $8,000 ;
.   albums made,  11,500; value,  $6,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m.  emp.,  2 ; £
emp., 3.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 12 ; value of l!tock used, $26,989 ; value of . clothing m'd, $52,006; cap., $13,625; m. emp.,  28 ; £ emp., 35.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments  for m. of  articles from 8; value of stock used, $88,556 ; value of Building Stone, Cemetery Stone, Grave Stones and  Marble   Pieces,   Cemetery  Statues,   Monn­
. mental Stones, Slabs, stone and marble m'd, $130,800 ; cap., $88,500; bands   emp., 100.
Sperm and  Tallow  Candles,  establishments  for m. of';  8;  value  of  stock
used,  $129,770 ;  lbs.  of  stearine  candles made, 465,135 ; value,
$96,714 ; lbs. of tallow candles made, 425,000 ; value, $75,000; cap.,
$65,000 ; hands emp., 48.
Soap, establishments for m. of, i6 ; value of stock UBed, $494,076 ; bbls.
of soft soap m'd, 5,900 ; value, $12,100 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 5,521,724 ; value, $648,505 ; value of all other soaps m'd, $22,000 ; cap., $182,000; bands emp., 89.
Lard Oil, gallons m'd, 100,000 ; value, $200,000 ; cap., $15,000; hands emp., 5.
Mas\{lr Builders, 16 ; buildings erected, 27 ; value, $183,100 ; value of
materials used, $75,095 ; bands emp., 96.
Blacksmith Shops, 9 ; value of stock used, $19,100 ; value of work done,
$39,900 ; cap., $21,100 ; hands emp., 47.
Chain and Sofas, marmfaetories of, 1; value of stock UBed, $25,(,00 ; chairs m'd, 20,000 ; sofas m'd, 5,000 ; value, $150,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; m. emp., 65.	·
Cabinet Manufactories, 6; value of stock used, $85,708 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $113,475 ; cap., $50,600 ; hands emp.,
140.
Tin Ware Manufaetories, 9 ; value of stock used, $6,560 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $9,025 ;  cap., $7,900 ;  hands emp., 22.
Grain ?tf ills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 30,000 ; value, $80,000 ; cap.,
$3,000; hands emp., 2.
'
18.]

•
INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	887


llroDLKHX   Co.	CAMBRIDGE.
Tanning and Currying  Establiabments,  8 ; value  of  stock  used,  $211,- 500; Hides  tanned,  25,000 ; hidei,  tanned  and curried,  80,700 ; value  of Leather tanned and curried,  $281,872 ;  cap.,  $37,500 ;  banda emp.,  82.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 855 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 224; gross  value  of  stock  used,  $2,285 ; value  of  boots  and  shoes  m'd,
$4,020; cap., $SOO ; m. emp., 10.
Brick  Yards,   2 ;  bricks m'd,   18,000,000;   value,  $182,000; cap.,
$205,000 ; bands emp., 180.
Philosophical, Nautical, Astronomical, and Mathematical Instrument8, establishments for m. of, 1; instruments m'd, 8 Telescopes, 75 Spy Glasses ; value, $5,650 ; value of stock used, $405 ; cap., $6,000; hands emp., 5.
Snu6, Tobacco, and Cigars m'd, value,  $28,882 ; value of stock used,
$19,785; cap., $7,800 ; m. emp., 85 ; f. emp., 6.
Blacking, establiabments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; gl'Ol9
value of blacking m $1,000 ; cap., $600; bands emp., 1.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of stock used,
$500 ; value of blocks and pups m'd, $1,700 ; cap., $500 ; bands emp., 2.	·
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,712; coffins made, 1,678; value, $8,424: ; cap.,$18,000; bands emp., 15.
Planing Milla, and establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value of sashes, doors, and blinds m'd, $8,000 ; value of all other work done, $1,000 ; cap., $8,000; bands emp., 8.
Boxes, establiabments for m. · of, 6 ; value of stock used, $42,588 ;
value of  wooden boxes made, $70,142 ; value  of  paper  boxes made,
$600 ; cap., $18,500; m. emp., 89 ; f. emp., 2.
Fireworks, establishments for  m.  of,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $2,840 ;
value of fireworks m'd, $6,889 ; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 5.
Gas, establiahments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $42,000 ; value of gas m'd, $78,000 ; cap., $275,000; bands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establiahments for preservation of, 5 ; tons preserved,
106,800 ; value, $66,000 ; cap., $84,000 ; hands emp., 82.
Bakeries, 7 ; value of Rtock used, $160,849 ; value of bread m'd, $225,- 864 ; cap., $26,100; m. emp., 66 ; f. t1mp., 1.	.
Distilleries, 1; value of stock·uaec1, $114,800 ; bbls. of New England Rum diatilled, 13,250 ;'value, $124,800 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 12.
STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
C..urBRIDGS.	MIDDLESEX Co.

Breweries, 1; value of stock 118ed, $16,682 ; bbk of Beer m'd, 8,400 ; value, $28,800 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Alewives taken, 50 bbls.; value, $250 ; hands emp., 8.	.  " Coastwise or  Carrying Trade, vessels  engaged in, 2 ; tonnage, 1891.
Stone Qual'ries, 1; value of building stone qual'ried and prepared fur market, $300 ; hands emp., 4.
Lime Kilns, 1; casks of lime m'd, 1,000 ; value, $400 ; cap., (see gas
works;)  hands emp,, 2.
Charcoal,  bush. brought to market, 825,000; value,  $82,500 ; cap.,
$18,000 ; hands emp., 17.
Farms, 11; acres, 316 ; value, including Buildings, $284,000 ; acres
improved, 8111; persoDS emp., 86. Unimproved Land, acres, 106 , Unimprovable Land, acres, 8.
Woodland, acres, 23; value, $7,600.
Indian Com, acres, ·8 ; bush., 240 ; value, $240. Rye, acres, 6; bush.,  120; value, $120.	• Potatoes, acres, 28\ ; bosh., 8,405 ; value, $8,455.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, ades, 1; bush., 200 ; value, $100. Onions, acres, l; bush., 95 ; value, $95.	·
Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 400 ; value, $200. Cabbage, acres, 2 ;heads, 8,106 ; value, $280. Winter Squash, acres, 8 ; value, $920.
Market  Gardening, acres, 12!; value of  products,  $1,465.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 21; bush., 400; value, $400. English Mowing, acres, 282 ; tons Engli$h hay, 854!; value, $6,585.
Wet  Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, 108; tons  wet  meadow  or  swale
hay, 113;  value, $1,100.	·
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 838,J\ ; tons of salt hay, 883,J\ ;value, $4,995. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,105 ; value of  applea,  $14,-
588.50 ; Pear-trees cultivated  for their fruit, 24,296;  value ef .peare,
$27,327; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 847 ; value of fruit,
$266.50 ; value .of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered formarket,
$302.80.
Sheep, 12 ; value, $50; Goats, 110; value, $880.
Horses, 1,420; value, $214,340; value of oxen and steers, $100; Milch Cows, 255 ; Heifers, 9 ; value of cows and heifer11, $18,168; galloD8 of Milk sold, 48,583;  value,  $11,277.
Beef, dressed, fbs., 50,000 ; value, $6,000.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 6,088,600 ; value, $918,420. &wine,.312 ; value, $5,638.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF :MASSAOHUSETTS.	389
Mio»LBSEX   Co.	C.AlllBIUDGL

Pork and Beef  Barrels, establishments for  m.  of,  2 ; bbls  m'd,    8,100;
value, $4,650; value of stock used, $1,450 ; cap., $1,200 ; m. emp., 4.
Machine  Shops, 2 ; value  of stock U8ed,  $1.72,772 ; value of repaire,
$254,409 ; cap,, $255,000 ; bands emp., 105.
Iron Foundries, 8; value  of  stock  used,  $53,000 ; value  of  Castings,
$88,000 ; capital, $42,500; hands emp., 94.
Melodeon Case Mano.factories, 1; cases m'd, 3,000; value of Etock used,
$25,000 ; value of cases, $40,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; bands emp., 28.
Spike Manufactory, 1; tons of spikes  m'd, 500; value  of stock   used,
$50,000 ; value of spikes, $70,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Army Bedstead Manufactory, 1; value of stock used, $200,000 ; value of bedsteads m'd, $250,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; bands emp., 100.
Diary Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $35,000; Books made, 500,000 ; sales, $100,000 ; cap., $30,000 ; m. emp., 25 ; f. emp., 55. Bacon Works, 2 ; value of stock used, $28,100 ; Hams and Sides cured,
250,000 ; value, $1,125,000 ; cap., $35,000 ; bands emp., 33.
Cement Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; lbs. of cement
made, 49,000 ; value, $2,250; cap., $3,000 ; h&Dds emp., 6.
Plumbers,  2 ; value  of  stock  used,  $12,350 ; value  of  work   done,
$19,000 ; cap , $4,850 ; bands emp., 14.
Turning and Sawing Establishments,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $1,000;
value of work done, $3,500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 3.
Millinery  Establishments,   1 ; articles  m'd,   100;  value   of  stock  used,
$1,000 ; value of articles m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; £ emp , 4:.
Ladder Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of ladders
m'd, $8,400 ; cap., $6,000.; hands emp., 5.
Stair Builders, 1; flights of stairs m'd, 150; value of stock used, $2,200 ;
value o·r  stairs, $4.,460 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands  emp., 4.
Oil Goods, manuflletories of, 1; value of  stock  used,  $9,000 ; value  of
goods m'd,  $10,020 ; cap., $500 ; m.. emp., 4:;  f. emp., 10.
Hardware .Manufacturers, 1; value of stock  used,  $1,200 ; value  of  Scuttle   FIM!ta, Ringil, Hooks,  Staples,   Pokers,  Iron   Bedsteads  m'd,
$4,000 ; cap., $1,000;  bands emp., 4:.
Watch Gla..ss Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of gla.". 8e8 m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 5.
Mat and Oakum Manufactoriee,  1; value of stock used, $6,500 ; value
of  mats and oakum m'd, $10,500 ; cap., $7,000;  bands emp.,  19.
Bouse  Painters, 8 ; value of  stock used,  $8,900 ; value  of  work  done,
$18,100 ; cap., $4,850 ; bands emp., 19.
Nurseries, 3 ; acres, 9 ; value, $181,000.
840	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
CA.RLl8LL	MIDDLESEX   Co.


CARLISLE.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd,  50 ; • gross value of stock used, $200 ; value of boot.s and shoes m'd, $325 ; cap.,  $100 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw  Mills,  8 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 1.75,000 ; value,
$2,625 ; hands emp., 3.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 770 ; value, $3,850 ; hands emp., 4.
Farms, 97 ; acres, 9,180 ; value, including Buildings, $256,070 ; acres improved, 2,556 ; persons emp., 200.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,828. Unimprovable Land, acres, 50. Woodland, acres, 1,701 ; value, $44,484.
Indian Corn, acres, 117 ; bush., 2,746 ; value, $2,746.
Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 9 ; value, $18. Rye, acres, 10 ; bush., 108;  value,  $155. Barley, acres, 12 ; bush., 127 ; value, $127. Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 8 ; value, $8. Oats, acres, 26; bush., 819 ; value, $239.
Potatoes, acres, 73; bush., 5,110 ; value, $2,555.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2 ; bush., 808 ; value, $60. Cranberries, acres, 5; bush., 50 ; value, $150.
English   Mowing,   acres,  648 ;  tons   of   English  bay,  567; value,
$11,340.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 596;  tons of wet meadow   or swale
hay, 499 ; value, $8,992.
Apple-trees cultjvated for their fruit, 8,021 ; value of apples, $1,400. Sheep, 21 ; value, $186 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 84 ; value, $84. Horses,  111 ; value,  $8,075 ; Oxen  over  four  years  old,  82 ; value,
$5,455; Milch Cows, 818 ; value, $11,581 ; value of Neat Stock not
embraced above, (158,) $2,754 ; gallons of Milk sold, 86,186 ; value,
$5,428 ; lbs. Butter sold, 4,604 ; value, $1,611. Beef, dre88ed, lbs., 10,000 ; value, $900.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 24,810; value, $3,721.50.
Swine, 50 ; value, $625 ; value of Poultry sold, $405 ; value of Eggs sold, $836 ; value of unenumerated articles of  Farm Produce,  $450.
White Beans, bush., 67; value, $201.
18M.]	INDUSTRY OF M.ASSACHUSEITS.	841
MmDLE8ll   Co:	Ca.&RLE8TOWN,
CHARLESTOWN.

Locomotives, Steam-engines, and Boilers, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock uaed, $88,000 ; locomotives, steam-engines, and boilers built, 160 ; value, $158,000 ; cap., $85,000 ; hands emp., 115.
Bl'888 Foundries, 1; value of stock  used,  $2,600 ; lbs. bl'888  castings  •
for railroad use, 18,000 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8. Chemical Preparations, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$50,000 ; value of chemical preparations m'd, $65,000; cap.,$25,000 ; hands emp., 5. .	·
Printing  and   Newspaper   Establishments, 8;  value  of   stock   used,
$4,800 ; newspapers and periodicals printed, 2 ; issued, weekly; gross
value, $5,700 ; cap., $10,000; m. emp., 14.
Daguerreia.n and Photographic Establishments, S ; value of stock osed,
$4,800; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 87,000; value, $9,800; cap., $4,700 ; m. emp., 7 ; £ emp., .
Brosh Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ; brushes m'd, 75,000 ; value, .$40,000 ; cap., $20,000 ;  hands emp., 50.	· Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 4 ; harnesses m'd, 56 ; value, $2,800 ; value of stock used, $1,875; cap., $1,000 ;
hands emp., 8.	·
Ship Yards, 1; value of materials used, $50,000 ; vessels launched, 1; tonnage, 1,150 ; value, exclusive of spars, rigging, and sails, $75,000; cap., $50, ; hands emp., 40.
Mast and Spar Yards or Sheds ; 2; value of materials used, $26,000 ; masts and spars m'd, 1,050; value, $87,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Sugar Refineries, 1; value of stock used, $2,368,800 ; lbs. of sugar refined, 10,800,000 ; value, $2,750,000; cap., $252,000 ; hands emp., 85.
Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; lbs. of confectionary made, 41,000 ; value, $14,000 ; cap., $11,000 ;
m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 5.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 9 ; value of stock used, $49,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $74,000 ; cap., $21,800 ; m. emp., 16; £ emp., 82.
:Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for the m. of articles &om, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; feet of Furniture work m'd, 5,000 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Sheet Lead and Lead Pipe, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used ; $825,000 ; lbs. sheet lead  m'd,  100,000 ; value  of the same,

•
84-2	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(186:S.
CRARLE8TOW'lf.	MIDDLESEX   Co.


$175,000 ; lbs. lead pipe m'd, 1,.500,000 ; value, $250,000 ; cap.,
$100,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Soap, establishments for m. o 2 ; value of stock used, $11,000 ; bbls. soft soap m'd, 800 ; value, $3;500 ; lb&. of hard IIOl&p m'd, 156,000 ; value, $20,000 ; cap., $3,500 ; hands emp., 7.
Master Builders, 23 ; Buildings erected, 8S ; value, $151,500; value of materials used, $106,500 ; hands emp., 205.
Blacksmith Shops, IS.; value of stock used, $116,900 ; value of work done, $220,200 ; cap., 878,750 ; hands cmp., 179. ·
Cabinet Manufactories, 6 ; value of stock used, $208,000 ; value of Chairs and Cabinet Ware m'd, $859,000 ; cap., $81,000 ; hands emp., 829.
Tin Ware Manufactnries, 11; value of stock used, $7,800 ; value of tin ware m'd, $9,075;  cap., $7,050 ; hands emp., 29.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dyestnffil, establishments ior m. of, 1; value of stock  used, $50,000 ; value  of drugs,  medicines, and  dyestuffs m'd,
$65,000 ;·cap., $25,000·; m. emp., 5.
Varnish,  establishments  for  m. of, 2 ; value  of  stock  U8ed, $25,000; gal­
lons of varnish m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 4.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 8; value of  stoek used, $1,024,-
509 ; Hides tanned, 188,000 ; bides tanned and curri.ed, 459,400 ; value of Leather tanned and curried., $1,289,500 ; cap., $421,000 ; hands emp., 247.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 688 ; value of etock ued, $8,158; valae
of  boots m'd, $3,847 ; cap., $1,945 ; m. emp., 2'J.	·
. Whip Manufa.ctories, 1; value of stock used, $54,000 ;  doz. whips m'd, 12,000 ; value, $72,000 ; cap., $85,000 ; m. emp., 50.
Blacking, establiehmenta  for m. of,  1; value of stock used, $20,000 ;
gross value of blacking m'd, $25,000; cap.,$20,000 ; hands emp,, 10.
Casks, establishments for m. of, 5 ; value of stock used, $7,800 ; caaks
m'd, 17,800 ; value, $18,600 ; cap., $8,200 ; hands emp., 12.
Stone and Earthen Ware, establishments for lil.of, l ; value of stock used, $12,000 ; value of stone and eutben w m'd, $8S,OOO ; cap.,
$10,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, l ; value of stock U8ed, $400 ; coffins  made, 50 ; value,  $600 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 8.	·   Planing Mills and  Establishments  for m. of, Sashes, Doors, and  Blinds,
1; value of atock used, $10,000 ; value of 888hes, doors, and blinds m'd, $16,000 ; value of other work done, $6,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 25.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.
MIDDLESEX  Co.	CHELMSFORD,

litazor Strops, manufact.ories of, 2 ; value ofatock used, $1,700; number m'd, 8,600 ;  value,  $3,580;  cap.,  $1,600 ;  band.a  emp., 6.    •
Gas, establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $81,255 ; value  of  gas m'd, $71,625;  cap., $200,000 ; hand.a emp.,  20.
Ice for market, esJablishmenta for·preservation of, 8 ; tons shipped &om wharf, 150,000 ; value $800,000 ; cap., $150,000 ; bands emp., 160. Pickles and Preaerves, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$800,000;   value  of   pickles   and  preserves   m'd,   $400,000 ;  cap.,
$100,000 ; bands emp., 85.
Bakeries,  18 ;  value  of  stock  used,  $159,000;  value  of bread  m'd,
$228,000 ; cap., $84,000 ; bands. emp., 75.	•
Distilleries, 2 ; value  of stock  used, $206,000 ; bbls. of  Rum distilled,
10,850 ; value, $2i8,400 ; cap., $55,000 ; hands emp., 11.
Breweries, 1; value of stock  used, $20,000 ; bbls.  Beer m'd, 5,000  ;
value $50,000 ; cap., $15,000; bands emp., 10.
Unimproved Land, acres, 62.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 62.
Horses, 987 ; value, $181,180; Milch  Cows, 20; value, $1,010 ; gal-
lons Milk sold, 7,756 ; value, $2,482.	•
Swine, 860 ; T"alue,  $5,400.


CHELMSFORD.
Woollen Mills, 2 ; seta of machinery, 10 ; lbs. of scoured wool con­ sumed, 950,000 ; groes :value of stock used, ·$890,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 450,000; value, $575,000 ; lbs. Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 171,000 value, $68,000 ; cap., $152,000 ; m. emp., 75 ; £ emp., 125.
Wonted  Yarn,  lbs. m'd,  and  not  made  into  cloth,  190,000 ; value,
$152,000.
Hosiery, eetablishmenta for m. of, 1;value ofstock used, $16,800 ; pain Ladies and Misses, hose m'd, 8,120 doz.; value, $11,282 ; lbs. Yarn m'd  and  not  made  into  hc»iery,  12,000 ;  value,  $12,000 ;  cap.,
$15,000 ; m. emp., 9 ; f.emp., 15.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m.of, 1; value of stock used, $48,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 800 ; value, $90,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; hand.a emp., 60.
Cotton, Woolle11, and other Machinery, establishmenta for m. of, 1; grou value o( stock used, $25,000; value of machinery  m'd,  $70,000; cap., $50,000 ; band.a emp., 70.
844	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
CuEL'HSFORD.	MmoLxt!Ex Co.

Ploughs, d other Agricultural implementa, establishments for m. of, 1; value  fjstock used,  $150 ; ploughs  m'd, 80 ; value, $860 ; cap.,
$600 ; hands emp., 1.
Brass Foundries, . 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value of Sword Trimmings, Cartridge Boxes, &c., m'd, $10,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishment for m. of, 2 ; carriages m'd, 85 ; value, $1,400 ; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $1,250 ; bands emp., 2.
Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of  stock used,  $8,000;
lhs.  of confectionery  made,  60,000 ; value,  $10,000;  cap., $8,000 ;
· m. emp., 4.
Marble and other kinda of stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock  used,  $1,200; value of building  stone,  granite,  $8,500 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Blacksmith Shops, 4, value of stock used, $1,000; value of work done,
$2,300 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Swords m'd, 20,000; value; $120,000 ; cap., $80,000; m. emp., 79 ; £
emp., 6.
Flouring Mills and Grist Mills, 8 ; bush., of Grain ground, M,500 ; value,  $66,000 ;  bbls.  ·of  Flour  m'd,  225 ; value,  $2,250 ; cap.,
$24,000;  hands emp., 6.
Boota, pairs of all kinds m'd, 150 ; Shoes; pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,440; gross value  of  stock  used,  $2,875 ; value  of  boots  and  shoes   m'd,
$8,680 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 4.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,00C, ; value of wooden boxes made, $2,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons p:reee"ed, 6,000 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Saw Mills,  2 ; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for market, 850,000 ; value,
$7,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,897 ; value, $15,008; cap., $8,000; bands emp., 8.
Farms, 808 ; acres, 14,782 ; value, including Buildings, $1,074,792; acres of land improved, 7,249 ; persons emp., 850.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,982. Unimprovable Land, acres, 215. Woodland, acres, 2,885 ; value, $134,779.
Indian Corn, acres, 817 ; bush., 10,285; value, $15,427. Wheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 80 ; value, $60.
Rye, acres, 1061; bush., 1,075 ; value, $1,611.
•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSEITS.	345
.  Mn>DLE8ll  Co,	CuELll8PORD,

Barley, acres, 37f ; bush., 685; value, $952. Buckwheat, acres, 31; bush., 85 ; value, $40. Oats, acres, 75t ; bush., 2,050 ; value, $1,640.
Millet, acres, 22 ; (61, cut green for seed ;) bush., 96; value, $384. White Beans, acrea, 15 ; bush., 1i5; value, $482.
Herdsgrass Seed, acres, 1; bush., 12 ; value, $36. Potatoes, acres, 185 ; bush., 14,515 ; value, $10,686.
Turnips cultivated  aa a field  crop, acres, 261;  bush.,  7,915 ;  value,
$1,582.
Ooioos, acres, 3 ; bush., 650 ; value, $1,050. Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 725 ; value, $290. Cabbage, acres, 31; value, $625.
Winter Squash, acres, 4 ; value, $500. Garden Seeds, acres, l; value, $200.
Market Gardening, acres, 6 ; value of products, $1,200.	•
Beeta  and  other  esculeot  vegetables,   acres  4 ; bush.,   1,200 ;  value,
$3,600.
Cranberries, acres, 48 ; bush., 1,800 ; value, $8,900.
English  .Mowing, acres, 1,662 ;·  tons  of  English  bay,  1,700 ; value,
$47,600.
Wet .Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 884 ; tons wet meadow or swale bay,  672 ;  value, $10,080.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,584 ; value of apples, $8,000 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  627 ;  value  of  pears, $525 ; all other trees cultlvated for their fruit, 272 ; value of fruit, $170; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $500.
Sheep, 88 ; value, $300 ; Iba. of Wool produced, 198; value, $178. Honea,  263;  value,  $2,857 ; Oxen over four years old, 86 ; value,
$7,805 ; .Milch Cows, 520 ; Heifers, 107 ; value of  cows and heifers,
$28,800 ; gallons of .Milk sold,  142,598; value, $22,101.92 ; Iba. of
Butter sold, 6,880 ; value, $2,215.50.
Beet; dressed, Iba., 464,700 ; value, $44,146. Pork, dressed, Iba., 49,480 ; value, $7,908.
.Mutton, dressed, Iba., 625 ; value, $125. VeaI, dressed, Iba.,  14,«8 ; value, $2,028.
Swine, 818 ; value, $3,985 ; value of Poultry eeld, $700 ; value  of E sold, $600 ; lbs. of Hooey, 228 ; value, $55 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $2,866.
•
846



STATISTICS  OF THE



(1865.
CONCORD.

MIDDLESEX  Co.

CONCORD.

Cotton Mills, (Cotton and Wool,) 1; 11pindles, 1,024 ; cotton consumed, lbe., 40,000; gross ·value of stock used, $160,000; yarde Cloth m'd, (cotton warp and all wool Flannel;) 566,000 ; groenalue, $216,000 ; cap., $78,000 ; m. emp., 84 ; f. emp., 26.
f	Printing and Newspaper Establishments ; value of stock used, $750 ;
value of printing done, $8,100 ; cap., $2,300 ; m. emp., 2.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $1,500; value of bookbinding done, $3,500 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 3.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock  Ul!ed,  $4,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $5,500 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 4. Blacksmith  Shops, 3 ; value of  stock used, $1,600 ; value of work done;
·Sl!i500 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 6.	•
Tin -Ware Manufactories, 1; value  of  stock  Med,  $200 ;  value  of, tin ware m'd, $400 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,350 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 885 ;
gross  value  of   stock  used,  $1,450 ; value  of   boots and  shoes m'd,
$4,325 ; cap., $2,800 ; m. emp., 7.
Snuff, Tobacco, and  Cigars, value  m'd, $6,680 ; value  of  stock used,
$4,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp. 2.
Blocks and  Pumps, establishments   for  m. of, 1; value  of   stock    used,
·$300 ; value  of   blocks  and  pumps   m'd,  $800 ; cap.,  $400 ;.hands
emp., 2.	•
Pail  and  Tub  Manufaetories,  1; value  of  stock   used,   $10,000 ; tubs m'd, 23,648; pails, 26,052; value, $14,449.14 ; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp.,  15.
Gold Leaf, manufaetoriee of, 1; value of stock used, $2,400; packages m'd, 30 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $2,000; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Casks, establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of  stock   used,   $200 ;  C88ks
m'd, 300 ; value, $525; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Ice for market,  establishments  for preservation  of, l; tons preserved,
350 ;"value, $500 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills,  2 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for mark-et.,  280,000 ; value,
$3,600; cap., $3,100 ; bands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark  prepared  for market.,  oords,  1,217 ; value,  $7,425.
Farms, 171 ; acres, 18,070 ; value, including Buildings, $773,110;	.s
improved, 10,550 ; persona emp., 288.	' Unimproved Land, acres, 648.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 97.
Woodland,acres, 8,859 ; value, $108,879.
•
1a65.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	84:7
M10DLB8BX   Co.	CONCORD,

Indian Corn, &erel!, 895 ; bosh., J.l!,181 ; value, $21,043. Wheat, acres, i ; bosh., 5 ; value, $10.
Rye, acres, 67 ; bush., 671 ; value, $1,266. Barley, acres, 28 ; buab., 865 ; value, $546. Buckwheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 16; value, $24. Oate, acres, 153; bush., 2,588 ; value, $2,090.80.
Millet, acres, l ; bush., 18 ; value, $26.
Potatoes, acres, 428; bush., 18,295;  value, $16,948
Turnips cultiTBted as a field crop, acres, 22; b.ush., 8,770; value, $1,623. Onions, acres, l3 ; bush., 840 ; value, $665.
Carrots, acres, '2 ; bU&h., 167 ; value, $58.40.
Garden Seeds, acres, 5 ; value, $1,700.
Market  Gardening, acrea,. 107 ; value of  products,  $12,873.
Tobacco, acres, l ; lbs., 250 ; value, $80.
Cranrries, acres, 1; bush., 2 ; value, $8.	.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,602 ; toD8  of  English bay, 2,446 ; value,
$64,092;  lbs. of  01'8118 or Clover  Seed, 50,000 ; value,  $125.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,575; tons of -wet meadow or swale hay, 2,444 ; value, $11,774.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 16,087 ; value of apples, $8,646 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,678; value of pears, $1,817 ;. all oer trees cultivated for their fruit, 40 ; value of fruit, $50 ; "1ue. of  Nuts  or Berries cultivated'or  gathered  for market,  $517.
Saxony Sheep of dift'ereot grades, 50; Merino sheep of dift'erent grades, 175 ; all other kinda of sheep, 65 ; gross Talue of all ebeep, $1,400 ; wool not sheared.
Hones, 244 ; value, $27,081;  Oxen over  ilur years old,  127 ;  lleera
under four years old, 54 ; value of oxen and ateen, $1838; )filch Cows, 727 ; Heifers, 117 ; value of cows and heifers,  $87,890 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above,, (10  Bulls,)  $425 ; gallona  of Milk 110ld, 217,017 ; value, $88,270.4:0 ;. lbe. of Butter sold, 8,'88 ;. value, Sl,699.
Beef,.dreseed, Iba., 183,898 ; value, $22,167.56.
Pork, dreeeed, Iba., 62,Ml ; value, $10,292. Veal, dressed, Iba., 51,250 ; value, $6.149.
Swine, 287 ; value, $9,825 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,871; value of
Egge eold, $1,278 ; lbs. of Honey, 580 ; value, $145; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 15 ; value, $5.65 ; value of  unenumerated  articlee of Fann
. Produce, $2,845.
Lead  Pencils m'd, 5,896 groes ; value, $7,179.95 ; value of  etock aeed,
$2,666.41 ; cap., $4,500 ; m. emp., 5; £ emp., 8.
'
848	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
DRACUT.	MIDDLESEX    Co.

•	•
DRACUT.

Woollen Mills, l ; sets of machinery, 7 ; lbs. of scoured wool con­ sumed, 230,000 ; gross value of stock used, $500,000 ; yards of Cae­ simere m'd, 325,000 ; value, $570,000 ; cap.,$500,000 ; m. emp., 130 ;
£ emp., 120.
Paper Manufactoriee, l ; tone of stock consumed, 400 ; value, $82,000 ; tone of wrapping paper m'd, 145 ; value, $40,000 ; tons of all other kinds of paper m'd, 75 ; value, $7,500 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 9 ; f.emp., 3.	·
Blackemitb Shops, 2; value of stock ueed, $800 ; value of wQrk  done,
$1,400 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Stone and Marble Quarries, l ; value of building stone quarried and prepared for market, $4,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Saw Mills, ·1; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 100,000 ; value,
$1,500; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., l.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 3,808 ; value, $16,222 ;
cap., $5,800  hands emp., 13.
Farms, 193 ; acres, 14,362 ; value, including Buildings, $860,590.; acres improved, 4,099 ; persons emp., 299.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,822.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 235.
Woodland, acres, 3,400 ; value, $128,189.
Indian Com, acres, 302;  bush.,  11,651; value,  $19,751.
Wheat, acres, 21; bush., 22 ; value,  $45. Rye, acres, 49 ; bush., 525 ; value, $826. BarMt, acres,  17  ; bush.,  280 ; value, $478.
Buckwheat, acres, 9 ; bush., 185 ; value, $294. Oats,acres, 113; bush., 2,404 ; value, $1,960. Millet, acres, 3; bush.,  17 ; value,  $68.
Potatoes, acres, 230; bush., 24,459 ; value, $19,448.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 17 ; bush., 5,504 ; value, $1,134.
Onione, acres, 3i ; bush., 1,226 ; value, $2,170.
Carrots, acres, li ; bush., 580 ; value, $129.
Cabbage, acres, 19 ; value, $2,850.
Winter Squaeh, acres, 9 ; value, $690.
Market Gardening, acres, 50 ; value of products, $4,648.
Cranberries, acres, 8; bush., 35 ; value, $109.
English   Mowing,  acres,  2,119 ;  tons  of   English   hay,  2,390; value,
$76,800.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	849
M1n»Lasax Co.	DUNSTABLE.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 728 ; tons wet meadow or swale bay, 707 ; value, $8,600.
Apple-trees cultivated for their miit, 16,475 ; value of apples, $8,990; Pear-trees cultivated for  their  fruit,  407 ; value  of  pears,  $125;  all other trees cultivated for th4:1ir truit, 975 ; value of truit, $450; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $381.
Sheep, I02 ; value, $484 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 465 ; value, $845.
Ho1'888, 242 ; value, $19,485 ; Oxen over four years old, 158; Steers under four years old, 47 ; value of oxen and steers, $18,815; Milch Cows, 775 ; Heifers, 175 ; value of cows and heifers, $29,445 ; value of  Neat  Stock  not  embraced  above,   ( Bulls,)   $226 ;  gallons;  of Milk sold, 227,498; value, $31,848 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 7,868; value, $2,680.
Beef, dressed, lbe. sold, 559,880 ; value, $38,946. Pork, dreeaed, lbs., '50,446 ; value, $8,912,	· Mutton, dressed, lbe., 75,775 ; value, $10,825. Veal, dressed, lbs. sold, 21,859 ; value, $2,8!5.
Swine, 1i6 ; value, $2,440 ; value of Poultry sold, $991 ; value of Eggs
sold, $1,258 ; lbe. of Honey, 450; value, $158 ; Beans, bush., 825 ;
value, $2,062.


DUNSTABLE.

Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $700 ; value of work done,
$1,500; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw Mills,  4 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  860,000 ; value,
$36,000; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 70,000 ; value, $2,100 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 802 ; value, $1,800.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 2,400 ; value, $172.
Farms,  90 ;  acres,  9,940;   value,  including  Buildings,  $252,805 ;
acres improved,   5,810;   persons  emp., 104.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,995. Unimprovable Land, acres, 810. Woodland, acres, 1,325 ; value, $48,045.
Indian Corn, acres, 175 ; bush., 4,970 ; value, $4,970.
Wheat, acres, I ; bush., 9 ; value, $18. Rye, acres, 65 ; bush., 486 ; value, $486. Barley, acres, 14 ; bush., 219 ; value, $164.
Buckwheat, acres, 17; bush., 131 ; value, $78.
350	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
FaA..xINGHAH.	l1JI>DL&8EX   Co.

Oats, acres, 89 ; bush., 1,017 ; ·value, $610.
Potatoes, acres, 76 ; bush., 4,853 ; value, $2,189.
English   Mowing,  acres,  942 ;  tom  of  English  bay,  720 ; value,
$12,960.
Wet MeadQw or Swale mown, acres, _788 ; toDS of wet meadow or swale hay,  574: ;  value, $4,632.
Apple-trees  cultivated for their fruit, 1,5.0; value of apples, $762 ;
value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated  or gathered  for maf'ket,  $26.
Sheep, 157 ; value, $1,063; lbs. of Wool, 673; value, $370.
1101'8e8, 118 ; value, $7,646 ; Oxen over four years old, 82 ; Steers under four yea.rs old, 59 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,152 ; Milch Cows, 392 ; Heifers, 122 ; value of cows and heifers, $13,242 ; gallons of Milk sold, 62,058 ; value, $8,998 ; lbs. of ·Butter aold, 9,341 ; value, $2,335; lbs. of  Cheese, 8,063 ; value, $459.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 19,765 ; value, $1,383. Pork, dressed, lbs., 46,204 r value, $5,813. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 175; value, $21.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,485;  value,  $ll4.
Swine, 65 ; value, $964; value of Poultry l!Old,  $572 ;  value  of Eggs sold, $640 ; lbs. of Honey, 800 ; value, $60 ; valu'.e of unenu­ merated articles of  Farm Produce, $800.
Cloth ·m'd in the family, (76 yards Woollen Cloth ;} value, $76.


FRAMINGHAM.
Woollen Mills, 4 ; aets of machinery, 26 ; lbs. of acoured wool consumed, 2,000,000 ; groes value of stock used, $800,000; yards of Blanketing m'd, 1,500,000 ; value, $900,000 ; lbs. of Yam m'd and not made into cloth, 600,000 ; value, $300,000 ; yards of Army cloth m'd, 150,000; value, $200,000 ; cap.,$129,000 ; m.emp., 893 ; £ emp., 390.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establiabments for m. of, 3 ; harnell888 m'd, 57 ; value, $2,180 ; value of atock used, $1,800 ; cap,, $1,100 ; hands emp., 4.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establiahments for m. of, 2 ; number of each m'd, 20 carts and 20 wagons; value, $4,000 ; value of stock uaed, $2,000 ; cap., $2,600 ; hands emp., 4.	.
Carriage  Wheels,  manufactories  of,  2;  value  of   stock  U8ed,  $160 ;
wheels m'd, 106; value, $330 ; cap., $475 ; haoda emp., 2.



•
.1865.]	INDUSTRY  or MA.SSAOHUSETTS.	851
MmoLESEX  Co.	f RAIUNGBAK,
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $700 ; Monuments m'd, 8 ; Slabe, 80 ; Table Tops, 6 ; value $1,600 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for m. of,  1; value of etock used, $2,000 ; bble. of soft. soar m'd, 400 ; value, $2,000 ; Iba. bard soap .m'd, 1,000 ;
value, $1,200 ; Talue of all otber  eoape m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $1,000 ,
hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 7 ; Talue, $7,000 ; value of
materials used, $5,000 ; bands emp., 6.
Blacksmith  Shops, 4 ; value ot' stock used, $2,650 ; value of work done,
$5,550 ; cap., $2,050 ; hands emp., 9.
Tin Ware Manu factories; 2 ; value of stock used, $400 ; value .of tin ware m'd, Sl,000 ; cap., $900 ; bands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 211 ; Shoee, pairs of all kinds m'd, 60,8()() ;
gross value of  stock  used,  $40,864 ; value  of  boots  and  shoee  m'd, .
$66,642; cap., $10,875 ; m. emp., 88 ; f. emp., 12.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $225,000 ; bonnets m'd, 120,000 ; value, $180,000; hats m'd, 120,000 ; value, $12,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; 111- emp., 50 ; f. emp., 800.
-Palm Loaf Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, 1 ; value of stock used, $80,000 ; hoods m'd, 280,000 ; value, $65,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; f.emp., 40.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinda, manufactories of, 1; value of atock used, $575 ; coffins made, 115; value, $1,087; cap., $400; hands emp., .
Ioe for market, establishments  for  preservation  of, 1; tona preserved,
900 ; "Vll.lue, $800 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Bakeries,  2 ;  value  of  stock  used,  $8,000 ; value  of  Bread m'd,
•	$12,800 ; cap., $1,920 ; hands emp , 5.
Stone and Marble Quarries, I ; value of building stone quarried and
prepared for market, $2,000 ; cap., $550 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw  Mills,  2 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market, 874,600 ; value,
$4,993 ; cap., $1,800 ; hands emp., 4,
Firewood and Bark prepared for mark.et, cord8, 1,043 ; value, $5,215; cap.,  $1,000 ; hands  emp., IO.
Fanru,  288;  acres,   12,905;  value,   including   Buildings,  $1,088,670;
acres of land improved, 9,166 ; persons emp., 874.	•
Unimproved  Land, acres, 2,127,
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 96.
Woodland,  acres, 2,519 ; value, $122,142.
Indian Corn, acres, 584 ; bush., 22,659 ; value, $20,888.20.
852	STATISTICS  OF THE	(186:i.
FR.UIJNGBAJI,	.MIDDLEHX  Co, .

Wheat, acres, 19 ; bush., 276 ; value, $450. Rye, acres, 97 ; bush., 1,780 ; value, $1,780. Barley, acres, 51; bush., 885 ; value, $626.25. Buckwheat, acres, 16; bush., 282 ; value, $116. Oats, acres, 278 ; bush., 7,845 ; value, $4,707.
Potatoes, acres, 287 ; bush., 28,669 ; value, $21,501.75.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, lf ; bush., 620; value, $260. Onions,	2!; bush., 777 ; value, $1,165.
Cabbage, acres, 7 ; value, $810.
Winter Squash, acres, 41; value, $514•
.Market Gardening, acres, 11; value of products, $1,100.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, lf ; bush., 520 ; value, $260. Cranberries, acres, 9!; bush., 862 ; value, $724.
English  Mowing,  acres, 2,848;  tons  of English  hay,  8,125 ; value,
$56,250.
Wet .Meadow  or  Swale  mown,  acres,  1,071;  tons of  wet  meadow   or
swale hay, 966 ; value, $8,694.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 28,806 ; value of apples, $15,997 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,758 ; value of pears,· $1,127.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 1; all other kinds of sheep, 822 ; gross value, $1,880 ; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 4 ; value, $2.50 ; lbs.of all other wool produced, 1,128;  value,  $561.50.
Horses, 480 ; value, $59,560 ; ABSes and Mules, 5 ; value, $425 ; Oxen over four years old, 100; Steers under four years  old, 18 ; value of oxen and i:teers, $9,762 ; Milch Cows, 898 ; Heifers, 129 ; value of cows and heifel'!!, $4.i,418 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (17 Bulls,) $1,895; gallons of Milk eold, 88,646 ; value,  $14,183.86 ; lbs. Butter sold, 48,229 ; value, $12,017.25 ; lbs. of Cheese, 500 ; value,  $200.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 865,800 ; value, $29,224. Pork, dressed, lbs., 109,054 ; value, $10,905•
.Mutton, dressed, lbs., 28,600; value, $2,981.50. Veal, dressed, lbs., 108,880 ; value, $18,005.60.
Swine, 675 ; value, $10,739 ; value of Poultry eold, $2,877 ; value of Eggs sold, $3,228 ; lbs. Honey, 475; value, $118.50 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax,  18 ; value,  $15.50 ; value  of  unenumerated  articles  of Farm
uce, $1,270.
Value of all other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, $425.
Value of  Straw braided in families, $1,178.
Vinegar, gallons, 6,285 ; value, $1,571.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	853
JdmDLESEX   Co.	GROTON.

Cider Appies, bush., 16,065; value, $2,409.76. Grapes, lbs., 16,775 ; value, $21,750.
Poets and Bails ; value, f 425.
Railroad Sleepers, 1,100;  value, $562 ; hands emp., 1.
Timber, number of feet, 225,000 ; value, $3,375 ; hands emp., 4.


.  GROTON.
Ploughs and other agricultural implements, establiahments Cw m. o( 1; value of stock used, $100,000 ; implements m'd, 1,500 Hay Cotters, 3,000 Ox Yokes, 400 Horse Rakes, 1,000 Mowing Machines, 3,000 Wheelbarrows, 600 Corn Shellers, 200 Carts and Wagoos, 500 Seed Sowers, 500 Hay Spreaders ; value, $200,000 ; cap., $150,000 ; bands emp., 125.
Paper Manufactories, 2 ; tons of stock consumed, 650 ; value, $96,000 ; tons of pripting paper m'd, 800; value, $120,000: toD8 of wrapping paper, 100 ; value, $80,000 ; all other kinds of paper m'd, tows, 50 ; value, $20,000 ; cap., $140,000 ; m. emp., 23 ; £ emp., 20.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establiahments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$392; daguerreotypes and photographs taken,	00;  value, $1,540 ;
cap., $250 ; m. emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments  for  m. of, 1; value  of  stock used,   $3,000 ;
value of  clothing  m'd, $4,000.i cap.,  $1,500;  m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 4.
Soap, establiabments for m. of, r; value of stock used, $.500 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 225; value, $1,100 ; cap., $250 ; hands emp., 2.
Master  Builders,  4 ;  (e11neaged   in  repairs  mainly, for  the  past  year ;)
bands emp., 9.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done,
$2,500; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 6.	·
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $700; value of tin ware m'd, $350 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, I ; value of stock used, $200,000 ; Hides tanned, 17,200 ; hides tanned and curried, 17,200 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $275,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., 75.
Bakeric,, 2 ; value of stock used, $26,500 ; value of Bread m'd, $32,800 ;.
cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw Mille, 8 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 455,000;  value,
$6,975; value of Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared
l
•
854	STATISTIC  OF  THE	(1865.
GROTON.	MIDDLESEX   Co.

for market, $2,262 ; value of all other lumber, $1,800 ; cap., $9,200 ;
bands emp., 7.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 2,600 ; value, $8,585 ;
cap., $5,500 ; bands emp., 15.
Farms, 240 ; acres, 22,582 ; value, including Buildings, $1,198,040 ;
acres improved, 12,807 ; persons emp., 800.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,718. Unimprovable Land, acres, 268. Woodland, acres, 6,026 ; value, $188,868.
Indian Corn, acres, 865 ; bush., 11,885 ; value, $17,220.
Wheat, acres, 8; bush., 88; value, $91. Rye, acres, 85 ; bush., 665 ; value, $1,056. Barley, acres, 55 ; bush., 974; value, $1,224.
Buckwheat, acres, 24 ; bush., 277 ; value, $859. Oats, acres, 146; bush., 8,197 ; value, $2,729. Beans, acres, 12 ; bush., 226 ; value, $500.
Potatoes, acres, 195;  bush., 19,045 ; value, $9,528.
Turnips, cultivated as a field crop, 7; bush., 1,025 ; value, $ 55.
Onions, acres, !; bush., 181 ; value,  $862.
Carrots, acres, 1 ; bush., 806 ; value, $408.
Wm'
ter Squash, acres, l ; value, $58.
Hops, acres, 11; lbs., 5,600 ; value, $1,966.
Tobacco, acres, 8 ; ,lbs., 2,500 ; value, $440.
English  Mowing, acres, •2,672 ; tons  of  English  hay,  2,556 ; value,
$51,200.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown; acres, 780 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 655 ; value, $6,550.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 18,186 ; value of apples, $19,857 ; Pear-trees cuitiva for their fruit, 850;  value of  pears, $281;  all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 287 ; value, $800 ; value of Chestnuts cultivated or gathered for market, $1,168.
Sheep,   256;   value,  $1,200;   lbs.  of  Wool  produced,   980 ; value,
$688.
Horses, 850 ; value, $84,015 ; Oxen over four years old, 158; Steers under four years old, 111; value of oxen and steers, $14,400 ; Milch Cows, 750 ; Heifel"8, 97 ; value of cows and heifers, $29,880 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (Bulls,) $200 ; gallons of  Milk sold,  68,681; value,  $12,011;  lbs. of   Butter   sold,  13,386;  value,
$4,960.
Beef, dreBBed, lbs., 148,810; value,  $18,754.
l
t
1865.)	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	855
11mDLB8ll   Co.	HOLLISTON,
Pork, dresaed, lbe., 74,975; value, $11,086. Mutton, dressed, lbs. 2,850 ; value, $290. Veal, dressed, lbe.,  18,190; value,   $1,700.
f	I'
Swine, 172 ; value, $8,220 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,284; value of Eggs sold, $976 ; lbs. of Honey, 808; value, $118; lbs. of Beeswax, 5 ;  value, $3.


HOLLISTON.
Mechanics'  Tools m'd and not elsewhere enumerated, value  of,  $8,000;
value of  stock used, $2,000 ; cap., $6,00 ; hands emp., 6.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $2,250 ;
value of printing done, $7,400 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 4.
Looking-Glaases and Picture Frames, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $90 ; number of  anicles m'd, 120;  value, $150.
Clothing, establishments  for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ;
value of clothing m'd, $8,158 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 4.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,800 ; bbls. of eoft soap m'd, 1,000; value, $8,000 ; lbs. of bard soop m'd, 5,000; value, $400 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 8.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 6 ; value, $10,200 ; value of materials used, $6,600 ; hands emp., 6.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2;  value of stock used,  $1,800 ; value of work done,
SS,600; cap., Sl,000 ; bands euip., 4.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of tin m'd, $1,500 ; cap.,  $1,000 ; hands  emp., 1,
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 368,876 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 41,880 ; gross value of stock used, $496,621 ; value of boots and shoes  m'd  $781,904 ; cap.,  $106,100;  m. emp.,  518;  £ emp., 26.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, 1; value of stock  used,  $40,000 ;·bonnets m'd, 80,000; value, $80,000; hats m'd, 70,000; value, $70,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 40 ; £ emp., 400.
Blocb and Pumps, establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of stock used,
$8,500; value of blocb and pumps m'd, $12,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Planing  Mills and  Establishments  for m. of  Sashes, Doors,  and Blinds,
1; value of stock used, $4,500 ; value of work done, $12,000 ; cap.,
$4,000; hands emp., 6.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,900 ; value of wooden boxes made, $(,050 , cap., $950 ; m. emp., 4•

•
856	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
HOLLISTON.	MIDDLBBU:  Co.

Ice for 'market, establishments for prese"ation o(, 1; tons preserved, 500 ; valu $160 ; cap., $800 ; bands emp., I.
Saw Mills, I ; feet of Lumber prepared for market,  800,000; value.
$5,500 ; cap., $2,500; bands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,800 ; value, $14,700.
Farms, 136 ; acres, 6,008 ; value, including Buildings, $332,560 ; acres improved, 2,614; persons emp., 201.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,889. Wood.land, acres, 3,897 ; value,.$107,091.
Indian Corn, acres, 285 ; bush., 7,057; value, $12,849. Wheat, acres, Ii; bush., 80 ; value, $60•
.Rye, acres, 18; bush., 291; value, $552.90. Barley, acres, 22 ; bush., 884; value, $884.
Buckwheat, acNl8,  l ; bush.,  10 ; value, $18.
Oats, acres, 80; bush., 1,925 ; value, $1,925.
Potatoes, acres, 160; bush., 18,921; value, $11,136.80.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  7 ; bush.,  1,586;  vale,
$475.80.
Onions, bush., 15.
Carrots, acres, 21; bush., 725 ; value, $170. Cabbage, value, $728.
Winter Squash, value,  $60.
Market Gardening, acres, S ; value of products, $825.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, ll ; bush., 246 ; value, $125. Cranbenies, acres, 88 ; bush., 183 ; value, $1,464.	• English Mowing, acres, 1,$59 ; tons English hay, 1,102 ; value, $88,060. Wet Meadow or·Swale mown, acres, 500; tons of wet meadow or swale
· hay,  880 ; value, $5,700.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 15,084 ; value of ·apples, $5,678 ; Pear-trees cultiva for their fruit, 868; value of pears, $222 ; Peach-trees cultivated for their fruit, 550; value of peaches, $75.
Sheep, 7 ; value, $84 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 76 ; value, $57.
Horses, 190 ; value, $22,150 ; Oxen over four years old, 70; Steers under four years old, 25; value of oxen arid steers, $7,022 ; Milch C.ows, 469 ; Heifers, 80 ; value of cows and heifers, $22,976 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (26 young stock and Bulls,) $700 ; gallons of Milk sold, 24,148 ; value, $4,885 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 27,408; value, $10,968 ; lbs. of Cheese, 540; value, $95.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 87,800 ; value, $4,158. Pork, dressed, lbs., 182,900; value, $22,160. 'Veal, dl'essed, lbs., 41,900 ; value, $5,24.2.

•
i865.]	INDUS..TRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	857
:MmDLESEX   Co.
HoP1UNTOK.


Swine, 197; value, $8,072; value of Poultry sold, $1,143; value of Eggs
eold, $1,503 ; lbs. of Honey, 840; value, $85 • value of Beeswax, $4.


HOPKINTON.
Tack Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $18,000 ; tons of tacks and Shoe Nails m'd, 681; value, $17,400; cap., $4,500 ; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 2,
Ploughs and other agricultural implements, establishments for m. of; 1; ploughs m'd, 60; value, $600 ; cap., $100; hands emp., 1, part of the time.
Harnesses, establishments for m. of; 1; value of harnesses m'd, $800; value of stock used, $400; cap., $100 ; bands emp., 1, part of the­ time.
Boats, establishment.a for m. of, 1; value of materials used, $250 ; boats built, 18 ; value, $600 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1, part of the time.·
Wagons, establishments  for m. ot; 1; number  m'd, 20; value, $2,000;
value of  stock U8ed, $1,000 ; cap., $500;  hands emp., 1.
Clothing,establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ;value of clothing m'd, $8,000; cap., $4,000; m. emp., 4; £ emp., 7.
Blacksmith  Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of work    done,
$5,000; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 575,640 ; Shoes, pairs of all ·kinds m'd,
20,700 ; gross value of stock used, $825,800 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,484,120; cap., $750,000; m. emp., 1,240 ; £ emp., 60. Straw Braid, value of, m'd and not made into  Bonnets or Hats, $1,450.
llanufaclories, 1; value of lasts m'd, $4,200; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 6.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of  sk  used, $9,600 ; value
of boot boxes made, $16,700 ; cap.,$4,000 ; m.emp.,7.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved,
500; value, $700;  cap., $1,000; hands emp., 1,part- of the time. Saw Mills, 4 ; feet  of Lumber prepared  for mark.et, 890,000 ;  value,
$6,240 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands ep., 2.
Firewood  prepared  for  market, cords,  1,260 ; value, $5,980 ; cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 6.  ·
Charcoal m'd, huh., 800 ; value, $125;  cap., $50 ; bands  emp., 1,part
of the time.
Farms, 165; acres, 10,470; value, including Buildings, $489,660 ; acres. improved, 610; persons emp., 190.
858	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865,
HOPKINTON.	:HmDLEBEX    Co.

Unimproved  Land, acres, 8,125.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 162.
Woodland, acres, 8,691; value, $94,500.
Indian Corn, acres, 240 ; bush., 7,470 ; value, $8,220.
Wheat, acres, 6 ; bush., 85 ; value, $212. Rye, acres, 88; bush., 515 ; value, $644. Barley, 12 ; bush., 188 ; value, $210.
Oats, acres, 110 ; bush., 2,680 ; value, $1,876.· White Beane, acres, 4 ; bush., 90 ; value, $225. Potatoes, acres, 190 ; bush., 19,400 ; value, $18,750•
. Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1; bush., 120; value, $42.
Onions, acres, l; bush., 220 ; value, $440.
Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush., 1,580 ; value, $580. Cabbage, acres, 2 ;value of products, $400. Winter Sqtl88h, acres, 2 ; value of  products, $580.
Market Gardening, acres, 8 ; value of products, $890. ·
'Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 4 ; bush., 1,850 ; value, $740.
Cranberries, acres, 22 ; bush., 820 ; value, $480.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,690 ; tons of  English  hay,  1,650 ; value, .
$33,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown,acres, 664; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 527; value, $5,270.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,480 ; value of apples,  $6,896 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 187 ; value of pears, $270 ; value
of Berries gathered for market, $7,400.	•
Sheep, 86 ; value, $840 ; lbs. of  Wool, 172 ; value, $120.
Hol'888, 278; value, $26,410 ; Oxen over four years old, 54 ; Steers under four years old, 24 ; value of oxen and steers, $5,720 ; Milch Cows, 608 ; Heifers, 67 ; value of cows and heifers,  $28,480 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced  above,  (90  yearlings,)  $1,530 ;  gal­ lons of Milk sold, 28,450 ; value, $5,860 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 17,890 ; value, $6,700.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 72,000 ; value, $6,480.
. Pork, dressed, lbs., 78,400; value, $11,760. VeaI, dressed, lbs., 41,000; value, $4,980.
Swine, 168 ; value, $8,270 ; value of Poultry sold, $880 ; value of Eggs sold, $640 ; lbs. of Honey, 80 ; value, $82.
Refined Cider, bbl&. m'd, 1,500 ; value,  $9,000 ; value of stock used,
$6,000 ; cap.,·$2,000 ; m. emp., 3.
Hoops   for  boot   and   dry  goodi  boxes,  number   m'd,   120,000; value,
$650 .; m. emp,, 1,
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS. 	859
11IDDLE8BX   Co.   •	LEXINGTON.

Cider, bbls. m'd, 460 ; value, $1,560.
Cider Vmegar, bbls. m'd, 170; value, $1,860.
Grape Wine, bbls. m'd, 18; value, $482.


LEXINGTON.
Chronometers, Watches, Gold and Silver Ware, and Jewelry, establish­ ments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of Gold Rings, Chains, Breastpins, &c., $7,000 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 8.
Saddles, Harneuea, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2.;detached parts, value, $1,000 ; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $500 ; hands . emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, 8; value of detached parta m'd, and repairing done, $2,500; value of stock used, $600; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 8.
Master Builders, 4; (employed in alterations and repairs;) hands emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shope, 3 ; value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of work done,  $5,000;  cap., $1,500;  hands  emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of tin ware m'd, $4,800;  cap.,  $2,000 ; hands  emp., 4.
Currying and Leather Dressing Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$25,000 ; Hidea dres8ed and curried, 5,000 ; value of Leather curried and dreseed, $81,000 ; cap., $5,000; hands emp., 6.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 900 ; grota value of stock used, $1,250 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, 8,250 ; cap., $625 ; m. emp., 5.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $800; straw and other bonnets m'd, 200 ; value, $800 ; hats m'd, 50; value, $75; cap., $150; £ emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved, 800;  value, $800; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 3.
Saw  Mills,  1; feet  of  Lumber  prepared   for market,  125,000 ; value,
$2,5_00 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 5.	·
Firewood   and  Bark  prepared   for   market, cords, 200 ; value,  $1,000 ;
cap., S.00 ; hands emp., 1.  .
Fanm, 211;acres, 9,740; value, including Buildings, $1,830,046 ; acre11
improved, 7,807;  pel'l!Ons emp., 202.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,170. Woodland, acres, 977 ; value, $58,459.
860	STATISTICS OF THE	. [1865.
LINCOLN.	MIDDLESEX  Co.

Indian Com, acres, 192 ; bush., 7,680 ; value, $11,520.
Rye, acres, 22 ; bush., 440 ; value, $880. Barley, acres, 18; bush., 270; value, $405. Oats, acres, 20 ; bush., 400; value, $400. Millet, acres, 8; bush., 50 ; value, $75.
Potatoes, acres, 208 ; bush., 2,704 ; value, $2,704. Carrots, acres, 4 ; bush., 600 ; value, $240.
Wmter Squash, acres, 5 ; value, $1,000.
Market Gardening, acres, 27 ; value of products, $2,400.
Cranberries, acres, 5.
English  Mowing,  acres, 1,500; tons  English  hay,  1,568; value, $54,880•
. Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 586 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 575 ; value, $11,500.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 28,480 ; value of apples, $800 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,864 ; value of pea.rs, $175; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 498 ; value of ·fruit, $50; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered  for  market, $120.
Saxony Sheep of di1ferent grades, 7 ; Merino sheep, of different grades,
6; gross value of all sheep, $575; lbs.  of Saxony wool, 85 ; value,
$18;  lbs.  of  Merino  wool,  24 ;' value, $12.80.
Horses,  848;  value,  $48,500; Oxen over four years  old, S6;   value,
$2,700;  Milch  Cows, 808; Heifers, 96 ; value  of  cows  and  heifers,
$42,820 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (12 Bulls,) $800; gallons of Milk sold, 148,887 ; value, $59,585; lbs. of Butter sold, 500 ; value, $250.	·
Beef, dre88ed, lbs., 560,000 ; value, $56,000.	•
Swine, 852 ; value, $7,040 ; value of Poultry sold, $500 ; value of Eggs sold, $800 ; lbs.  of  Honey,  500 ; nlue, $125.
Cucumbers for Pickles, acres, 25 ; number, 2,865,000 ; value, $(,450.
Skins dressed, 7,800 ; value,  $15,000 ; value of stock wied, $8,000 ;
cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 6.


LINCOLN.
Railroad Cars; Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; number m'd, 8 wagons ; value, $150 ; value  of stock used, $75 ; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used,  $200 ; value of work done,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Grist Mills, 8 ; bush. of Grain ground, 4,500.
•
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS. 	861
MIDDLESEX   Co.	LINCOLN.

Shoes, pairs of all kinda m'd, 760; value, $760; m. emp., 1.
Saw  Mills,  2; feet  of   Lumber prepared  for  market, 127,000; value,
$2,540 ; bands emp. about three months, 2.
Firewood and Bark pre for market, cords, 694 ; value, $8,470.
Fanns, 114; acres, 7,724; value of	e, including Buildings,  $859,620; ·
acres of land improved, 4,581; persons emp., 200.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,042. Unimprovable Land, acres, 20. · Woodland, acres, 2,229; value, $il,875.
Indian Corn, acres, 145; bush., 4,850 ; value,  $7,625.
Rye, acres, 12}; bush., 180; value, $860. Barley, acres, 24 ; bush., 860 ; value, $680. Oats, acres, 17 ; bush., 255 ; value, $255, Potatoes, acres, 52; bush., 5,200; value, $5,200.
Carrots, acres, ll; bush., 400 ; value_ $UO.
Winter Squash, acres, l; value, $100.
Market  Gardening, acres, 17; value of  products,  $1,646.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,128 ; tons  of  English  hay,  608;  value,
$18,090.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 808 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 854; value, $,1,248.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 9,95 ; value of apples, $2,146; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 460; value of pears, $670; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 100 ; value of fruit, $25 ; value of Nuta or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $1,830.
Horses, 159 ; value, $15,900 ; 0.xen over four years old, .48; Steers under four years old, 5; value of oxen and steers, S4,445 ; Milch Cows, 488 ; Heifers, 95 ; value of·cows and heifers, $18,805 ; gal­ loD11 ·of Milk aold, 128,500 ; value, $22,828 ; lbs. of Butter aold, 1,040 ; value, $455.
Bee( dreNed, lbs., 8,100 ;value, $810.
Pork, dreued, lbs., 28,515; value,  $4,715.
Swine, 88; value, $1,425.75; value of·Ponltry sold, $454 ; value of Eggii sold, $867; lbs. of Honey, 650; value, $180 i value of unenu­
merated articles of Farm Produce, (85i acres Cucumbers or Pickles,)
15,890.

46
862
STATISTICS  OF THE
[1865.
LrrrLETON.

MIDDLl:SEX  Co.


LITTLETON.

Saw Mills, 1; feet of  lumber  prepared  for  market,  250,000 ; value,
$8,750.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for .market, cords, 450 ; value,  $1,SbO ;
hands emp., 2.
Farms, 142 ; acres, 10,009 ;  value,  including  Buildings,  $444,800 ; acres improved,  6,934 ; persons emp., 175.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,075. Unimprovable Land, acres, 460. Woodland, acres, 11129 ; value, $50,805.
Indian Corn, acres, 2511; bush., 7,918 ; value, $11,827.
Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 2 ; value, $44. Rye, acres, 40 ; bus, 411l; value, $617. Barley, acres, 48 ; bush., 701 ; value, $911. Buckwheat, acres, 2 ; bneh., 25 ; value, $85.
Oats, acres, 107 ; bush., 1,507 ; value, $1,214.
Potatoes, acres, 148 ; bush., 14,886 ; value, $8,901.60.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop, acres,!; bush.,  50 ; value,  $100.
Cranberries, acres, 8 ; bush., 88 ; value, $99.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,752 ; tone  of English  hay,  1,594 ; value,
$89,850.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 662 ; tone of wet meadow or ewale hay, 466 ; value, $5,992.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 18,445 ; value of apples, $6,454 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,060 ; value of pears, $56 ; all other trees cultinted for their fruit, 1,000;  value of  fruit, $1,100 ; value of  Nute or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $882.
Sheep, 79 ; value, $316 ; lbs. of  Wool produced,  200; value, $120.
Horses, 186 ; value, $12,009 ; Oxen over four years old, 54; Steers  under four years old, 8 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,952 ; Milch  Cows, 714 ; Heifers, 174 ; value of cows and heifers, $84,460 ; gallons of Milk sold, 168,578; value, $27,924 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 14,190 ; value, $4,196.
Beef, dreeeed, lbs., 58,445 ; value,  $5,844.50.
Pork, dressed, lbs., l,665 ; value,  $2,150.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 8,950 ; value, $1,367.
Swine, 87 ;value, $2,090;'value of Poultry sold, $1,784 ; value of Eggs
. sold $885 ; lbs.  of  Honey,  20; value, $5.
.  1865.]	INDUSTRY OP MASSACHUSETTS.	863
Mm»Lan Co.	LOWELL.
LOWELL.
I
Cotton Mills, 88; spindles, 385,412 ; cotton COD81Ulled, 5,045,301 lbs, ;
grou value of stock U8ed, $4,387,308.24 ; yards of cotton cloth· m'd, (Sheetings, Shirtings, and Drills,) 17,750,9181,; grou value, $5,821,· 867.48; lbs. of Yam m'd,  and not  made  into cloth,  38,491 ; grou value, $27,718.52; lbs. of Cotton Batting m'd,  8,000 ; value,  $800; bales of Pelisee Wadding m'd, l,450 ; value, $2,900 ; yards of Cotton Flannel m'd, 629,947; value, $829,537.29 ; value of  all other  goods  m'd in said mills, (Banding, lbs., 1,581; value, $2,794.07 ; Hamesa Twine, value, $12,808;  MoU88eline  de Laine, Repellants,  Cashma­ retts, Cauimeres, total number of yards, 866,481f  ; value, $517,- 854.53;  Cotton  and   Wool   Hose,  doz.,  52,920 ; value,   $150,184 ;)
$693,135.60 ; cap., $8,765,500 ; m. emp., 948 ; £ emp., 1,650.
Calico and Mouueline de Laine, establishments for printing, 2 ; yards of calico printed, 10,557,076; value before printing, $2,639,269 ; value aft.er printing, $3,167,122 ; cap.,$800,000 ;m. emp., 188 ; £ emp., 11. Cotton Goods, establishments •for bleaching or coloring; and not con­ nected with calico or mouSBeline de Jaine establishments, 1; yards of
,goods bleached or colored, 16,119,887 ; value, (the above goods are invoiced from various parties to the above company, and no value ia ever received ;) cap., $800,000 ; hands emp., 258.
Woollen Mills, 15;  sets  of machinery, 96;  lbs. of eooured  wool con­
swned, 2,110,783; grou value of stock U8ed, $2,986,050.45 ; yards of Caaaimere m'd, 299,199 ; value, $709,187 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 71,884; value, $58,918 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing,  2,399,540; value, $1,861,794.72; Sbawla m'd, 111,820 ; value, $385,460 ; Table Covers  m'd.  41,550  ; value,  $62,325;  lbs. of  Woollen  Yam  m'd  and  not made into cloth, 77,000 ; value, $115,000 ; value  of  all  other woollen   goods   m'd,   (54,285   yards    Cashmaretts,)    $82,541 ;  cap.,
$1,624,000 ; m. emp., 697; £ emp., 626.
Woollen Carpeting, milJII for m. of; 8 ; lbs. of eooured wool consumed, 2,183,309 ; grou value of stock  U8ed, $1,589,664.18;  yards  of  wool­ len  carpeting   m'd,   (two  and   three-ply   ingrains,)   1,489,755 ; value,
$2,048,485.09 ; all other deecriptions of carpeting, establishments for
m. of, 2 ; value of atocb U8ed, $88,562 ; yards m'd, 104,586 ; value,
$45,678; cap., $1,622,000_; m. emp., 382; £ emp., 575.
Worsted Goods, or goods of which worsted ia a component part, estab­ lishments for m. of; 2; value of stock U8ed, $84,158.85 ; yards of other fabrics m'd, (fine worsteds,) 124,946 ; value,  $88,654.77;  11*. of worsted yam m'd and not made into cloth, 27,000 ; value, $54,000 ; cap., $420,000 ; m. emp.,   ; £ emp., 155.
864	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
LoWEu:..	l'tlIDDLEsn:   Co.

Shoddy, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $87,4:02.85 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 82,159 ; value, $4:1,14:2.59 ; cap., $10,000; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 1.
Hollow Ware and Castings, 9ther than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $14:4,195.74:; tons of hollow ware and other castings  m'd,  2,492 ; value,  $379/.175.97 ; cap.,  $815,000 ; hands
,emp., 195.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery,  establishments  for m. of,   18;
gross value  of  s used, $858,487.85 ; value of machinery m'd,
$861,946.59 ; cap., $498,63!; hands emp., 714. ,
Machine and Hand Cards, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $38,000 ; pairs of hand cards m'd, 7,500 ; value, $8,500 ; feet of machine cards m'd, 81,000 ; value, $64,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 4.
Locomotives, Steam-Engines, and Boilers, establishments for m of, 8; value of stock used, $14,789.60 ; number of locomotives, steam­ eugines,  and  boilers  built,  81 ;  value,  $28,896.16 ; cap., $10,000;
hands emp., i9.	·
Edge Tools, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,700 ; dozens of edge tools m'd, 828 ; value, $11,800 ; cap., $6,600 ; hands emp., 9.
Files, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; dozens
of files m'd, 8,840 ; value, $11,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 19, Nuts and  Screws, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used,
$127,800 ; tons of nuts and screws m'd, 739 ; value, $219,500 ; cap.,
$70,000 ; hands emp., 95.
Iron Railing and Iron Fences, shops for m. of,  1; value  of  stock used,
$600 ; value of iron railing and  iron fences  m'd, $800;  cap., $300 ;
hands emp., 1.	·
Copper Ware m'd, (Steam Cylindera and Kettles,) lbs., 5,020 ; value,
$5,800 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 8.
:8rass Foundries, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,800; lbs. of Machine Cast­
ings m'd, 1,620 ; value, $4,800 ; cap.,$1,150 ; bands emp., 8.
Hoop Skirts, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $150 ;. hoop skirts m'd, 150 ; value, $225 ; cap., $500 ; t: emp., 2.
Chemical Preparations,  establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock  used,
$6,840 ; value of chemical preparatio°" m'd, $10,206 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 225 ; value, $25,000 ;
tons of wrapping paper m'd, 165 ; value, $50,000 ; cap., $12,000;
m. C;lmp., 12,

. .
1865,]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	865
llu>oLuu. Co. .	Low&LL.

Printing  and  Newspaper  Establishments,  7 ;  value   of   stock   used,
$34,615.17;  newspapers  printed;  (Weekly  Journal,  Daily Courier,
Weekly Vox Populi, Daily Citizen & News, Weekly American Citi­ izen,) 5 ; gross value, $14,500 ; cap., $15,000 ; Books printed, 2 ; value of 'Printing done on the same, $188; value of all other printing
done, $55,547.10 ; cap., $43,400 ; m. emp., 46 ; £ emp., 7.
Bookbinderies, 2 ; value of st.ock used, $524.97 ; value of bookbinding done, $1,748 ; cap., $1,200; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 1.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establiahmenta, 10 ; value of stock uaed,
$8,550 ;  daguerreotypes  and  photogflll.phs   taken,   104,800 ; value,
$26,186; cap., $11,500 ;.m. emp., 24 ; £ emp., 7. .
Looking-Glasees and Picture Frames, manufactoriea of, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,600 ; articles m'd, 4,125; value, $4,225; cap.,&J,,547 ; hands emp., 8.
Silver Ware, establishments for m. of, 1; value of  stock  used,  $2;000 ;
value of silver spoons m'd, $2,600 ; cap., $1,200; m. emp., 1.
:Mattreeeee of all kinda and materials, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $450 ; mattresses made, 54 ; value, $660 ; cap., $200 ;
m. emp., I.
Harneeees and Trunks, establishments for m; of, 7 ; harnesses m'd, 28 ; trunks m'd, 1,142;  value,  $8,818 ; value ofst.ock used, $5,948;  cap.,
$4,900 ; hands emp., I 6.
Upholstery Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $475 ; value of upholstery m'd, $568 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp., 1.
Cap Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ;	pa m'd,  8,500 ;
value, $3,150 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., J ; £ emp., 4.
Fur Goode, including Leather  Gloves and  Mittens,   establishments   for
m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,800 ; articles m'd, Sable, Martin, and Fitch, and 200 doz. Gloves ;·value, $6,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 5.	·
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagone, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 7 ; number m'd, 162 wagons, 18 buggies, 2 chaiaes, ·12 sleighs ; value, $18,024.50; value of st.ock used, tll,064.84; cap., $8,750;  hands emp.,  46.
Confectionery, establishments for.m. of, 2 ; Talue of stock used, $8,448;
.   lbs. of  confectionery made, 28,800 ; value, tll,6(0; cap., $7,000; m.
emp., 2 ; £ emp., 1,	·
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 29; value of stock used, $77,214.10 ; value of clothing m'd, $189,925.20; cap., $65,145; m. emp., 84; £ emp., 273.
•


Digitized byGoogle .
866	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
LOWELi..	l't:IIDDLESBX   Co.

Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of articles from, 5; value of stock used, $12,181 ; Building Stone and Cemetery work, pieces, 1,445 ; value, $46,480 ; cap., $4,950 ; hands emp., 41.
Tallow Candles, establishments for m. o(, 2 ; value of stock used, $5,360 ; lbs. of tallow candles  made, 32,000 ; value,  $7,260 ; cap.,  $8,600;
.hands emp., 2.
Soap, establishments for m. o(, 4 ; value of st.ock used, $25,000 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 2,635 ; value, $8,239 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 301,156 ; value,  $31,086 ; cap., $14,950;   hands emp., 14.
Master Builders, 16 ; buildingt erected, 40 ; value, $183,959.13 ; value of materials used, $85,430.38 ; hands emp., 155.
Blacksmith Shops, 12 ; value of stock used, $11,223; value of work done, $23,850; cap., $11,320 ; hands emp., 31•
.Arms, establishments for m. o(, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,300 ; small
arms  m'd,  25  Rifles  and  Fowling  Pieces,  1,100  Pistols ; value,
$5,525 ; cap., $40,500 ; m. emp., 22.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories o(, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; chairs and settees made, 85,000 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 20.
Cabinet  Manu.factories,  4;  value  of   stock  used,  $21,340 ; value  of
chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $55,200 ; cap.,$27,000 ; hands emp., 61.
Tin Ware Manufactories,  12 ; value  of  stock  used,  $17,976.21; value
of tin ware Iil'd,.$28,250.82 ; cap., $15,250 ;	ds emp., 80.
Drugs, Medicines and Dyestuff's, establishments for m. o(, 5 ; value of stock used, $202,242.40 ; value of drugs, medicines, and dyestuffs m'd, $407,865 ; cap., $118,542.40 ; m. emp., 48 ; £ emp., 41.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 3; value of stock used, $181,700 ; bides tanned, 16,822 ; hides ia.nned and curried, 25,580 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $181,214; cap., $84,000 ; hands emp., 98. Belting of all kinds, and all materials for Machinery, manufactories of, 3;  value  of  stock  used,  $96,482.80 ; lbs.  m'd,  45,489f ; value,
$124,457.88; cap., $46,21>0; hands emp., 19.
Patent and Enamelled Leather, establishments for m. o(, 1; value of stock  used,  $48,000 ; value  of patent  and enamelled  leather  m'd,
$90,000 ; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 15.
Boots, pairs of all kinds. m'd, 26,692 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 8,909 ; gross value of stock used, $38,888 ; value of boots and shoes m'd,  $54,498 ; cap., $19,385;  m. emp., 68 ; £ emp., 32.
Cigars m'd, value, $87,885 ; value  of stock used, $15,026.38 ; cap.,
$10,660 ; m. emp., 14.
Pumps, establishments for m. ofe 1; value of stock used, $150 ; value of pumps m'd, $500 ;, cap., ,$300 ; hands emp., 1.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETrS.	867
MmoLEsu: Co.	LOWELL.

Tub  Manufactories,  1; value  of stock  used,  $800 ; tubs  m'd, 1,500;
value, $400 ; cap., $150; handa emp., 1.	.
Wire Safes, Sieves, I>i8h Covers, and other articles made wholly or in part of wire, manufactories of, 8 ; value of stock used, $4,847.21 ; articles m'd, 67,197 ; value, $15,773.01; cap.,  $7,110 ; m. emp., 13;
£ emp., 3.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactoriee of, S ; value of stock used, $1,100; coffins made, 693 ; value, $2,498 ; cap., $2,885; hands emp., 5.
Planing Mills and establidbments for m. 6f Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 8 ; value of stock used, $289,742; value of 888bes, doors, and blinds m'd, $165,294.28 ; value of all other work  done, $15,187.74 ; cap.,
$106,500 ; hands emp., 81.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $24,592.74 ;
value of  wooden boxes made,  $80,522;  cap., $82,000; m. emp., 12.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $47,000 ; value of gu m'd, $82,500 ; cap., $200,000; ·hands emp., 25.
Ice  for  market,  establishments  for  prese"ation  of, 1; tons preserved,
6,000 ; value, $27,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Bakeries,  5 ; value of stock used, $46,086 ; value of bread m'd, $58,645;
cap., $12,150 ; bands emp., 17.
Saw  Mills,  4 ; feet of  Lumber prepared  for market, 9,600,000 ; value,
$264,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Stavesprepared for mar­ ket, 1,850,000 ; value, $8,100 ; cap., $170,000 ; bands emp., 88.
Firewood  prepared  for  market,  cords,  4,790 ;  value,  $84,770 ; cap.,
$7,700; hands emp., 21.
Cbarcoa.l, bush. m'd, 5,250 ; value, $630 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 1. Farms,  80 ;  acres,  1,171f  ;  value,   including   Buildings,   $286,900 ;
acres improved, 847l; per!Ons emp., 76.	· Unimproved Land, acres, 2421.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 24.
Woodland, acres, 1051;  value,  $12,525.
Indian Corn, acres, 701 ; bush., 2,998; value, $4,480.50.
Rye, acres, 20 ; bush., 280 ; value, $858. Barley, acne, ll; bosh., 15; value, $22.50. Oat.a, acres, 1(1-; bosh., 280 ; value, $250.
Potatoes, acres, 61f ; bush., 6,8781; value, $5,481.
Turnips  cultivated  u a  fteld crop,  acres, 7f ; bush.,  1,780 ; nlue,
$508.10.
Onions, acres, l; bush., 75;  value,  $75.
Carrot.a, acres, 21 ; bush., 920; value, $828.
868	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
LoWELL.	MIDDLESEX  Co.

Cabbage, acres, 3 ; value, $777.
Winter  Squash, acres, ll; value  of  productB, $180.
Market Gardening, acres, 54f ; value of products,  $8,107.50.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2; bush.,382 ; value, $191. English Mowing, acres, 427;  tons English hay, 574; value.  $15,249.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 83 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  82\ ; value, $1,229.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 9,487 ; value of apples, J2,375; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,059 ; value of pears, $834.50; all other trees cultivated for.the fruit, 180 ; value of  fruit, $168.
Horses, 975 ; value, $133,225; Oxen over four years old, 80 ; value,
$3,142 ; Milch Cows, 810; Heifers, 2; value of cows and heifers,
$16,614; gallons of  Milk sold, 35,977;  value, $7,833.89.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 480,299 ; value, $52,305. Pork, dressed, lbs., 5,900 ; value, $975.
Mutton, dressed, lb$., 155,000; value, $15,500. Veal, dressed, lbs., 87,780 ; value, $8,188.
Swine, 401; value, $10,821.90.
Portable Houses, establishments for m. of, 1; houses built, 64 ; value of materials used, $18,000 ; value of buildings completed, $29,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 13.
Stairs and Stair Railing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of materials • used, $600; value of work done, $2,085.04 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Drain and Water Pipe, establishments for m. o( 1; gross value of stock
used, $500 ; value of pipe made, $1,200 ; cap., $700 ; m. emp., 1. Deck  Plugs and Bungs, establishments  for  m. of, 1; number m'd,
500,000 ; value of stock used, $400 ; value of plugs and bungs m'd,
$900 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 3.	·
Comfortable Mahufactories, 1; gross value of stock used, $4,500 ; comfortables m'd, 2,000 ; value, $6,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2 ;
£ emp., 10.
Soda Water, establishments for m. of, 1; fountains of soda water m'd, 700; value, $1,050 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 4.
Scale Manufactories, 1; value of materials used, $3,000 ; value of scales m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; bands emp., 4.
Bobbin and Spool Manufactories, 2 ; gross value of stock used, $84,000 ;
bobbins and spools m'd, 4,571,429 ; value, $82,000 ; cap., $45,000 ;
m.	•
Manilla Door Mats, establishments for m.  o( 2 ; value  of stock  used,
$1,100 ; value of mats m'd, $2,400 ; cap., $1,200 ; m. emp., 5 ; £
emp., 8.	--



...	Digitized   by Google
1866.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	869
MIDDLESEX   Co.	LOWELL.

Wood ScreWB and Wood Turning, establishments for m. o( 2 ; value of stock used, $600 ; dozens of wood screws m'd, 550 ; value, $2,000 ; value of turoing dooe, $850 ; cap., $2,900 ; m. emp., 5.
Power  Loom  Harness  Manufactories,  1; grou  value  of stock used,
$1,116.69 ; sets of harness m'd, 685 ; value, $2,306.78; cap., $1,250 ; m. emp., 1 ; £ emp., 8.
Power Loom Reeds and Wire Heddles, establishments for m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $4,500 ; reeds m'd, 8,831; heddles m'd, 1,120,000 ; value of reeds and heddlee, $18,757 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 7.
Stove Manufactories, 6 ; value of stock used, $2,027.50 ; stoves m'd, 249 ; value, $2,846.50 ; cap., $2,475 ; m. emp., 9.
Silk, Lace, and Crape Bonnets, establishments for m.of, 12 ; gross value of stock used, $8,425 ; bonnets m'd, 2,712 ; value, $9,898.50 ; cap.,.
$16,600 ; £ emp., 68.
Shoulder Brace and SusJ?eDdor Maoufactoriea, 2 ; gross value of stock used, $50,490 ; articles m'd, 168,840 ; value, $76,200 ; cap., $9,500 ; m. emp., 19; f. emp., 72.
Gas Meter Manufactoriea, 1; gross value of stock used, $1,500 ; gas
meters m'd, 800 ; value, $8,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 4.
Spectacle Frame Maoufactories, 2 ; gross .value of stock used, $700; value of spectacle frames m'd, $1,300 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 2. Stencil Plate and Stamp Manufactories, 4; gross value of stock used,
$784 ; articles m'd, 8,300 ; value, $5,273.80 ; cap.,  $700 ; m. emp., 10.
Hair Felting, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $7,000 ; lbs. of hair consumed, 200,000 ; yards of hair felting m'd, 250,000 ; Yalue,  $25,000 ; cap.,  $10,000 ; m. emp., 10.
Loom Shuttles, establishments for m. of, 1; shuttles m'd, 16,000 ; gross
value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of shuttles m'd, $12,000 ; cap.,
$2,000 ; m. emp., 6.
Bunting, establishment& for m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $8,000 ; yard.a of bunting m'd, 25,000 ; value, $2,500 ; cap., $2,500; m. emp., 2;  £ emp.,8.
Silk and Woollen Goods, establishment& for coloring of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,090 ; value of coloring  done, $5,831 ; cap.,  $6,200; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 4.
Ornamental Hair Work, establiehmeota for m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $400 ; value of articles made, $800 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., I.
,1
870	STATISTICS OF THE	(1866.
LLDD.	llmDLE8ll Co,

Grist Mills, 3; bu.eh, of Grain ground, 91,021; value, $186,404.06; cap., $45,000 ; m. emp., 7,
Gravel Roofing, establishments for m. ot; 8 ; squarea of roofing don 2,004 ; value,   Sl0,024 ; gross   value   of  stock   used,   $6,015 ; cap.,
$4,020 ; m. emp., 18.


MALDEN.
Dress Trimmings, including Gimps, Cords, Buttons, Fringes, and Tas­ sels, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $9,000 ; value of trimmings and other articles m'd, $19,500 ; cap., $5,000 ; m.emp.1 15 ; £ emp., 15.
Metallic  Gas Pipes, Water Pipes, and   Steam  Pipes,  manufactories    of,
1; value of stock used, $15,218 ; value of pipe m'd, $42,000 ; cap.,
$88,000; hands emp., 16.
Britannia Ware,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value  of. stock   used,
$5,000; Syringes m'd, 80,000 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 4.	•
Chemical Preparations, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock
used, $100,000; value of chemical preparations m'd, $180,000 ; cap.,
$50,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$100; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 1,200 ; value, $600 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 15; value. $500 ; value of stock used, $800 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 2.
Cordage Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; lbs. of cordage m'd, 2,500 ; value, $2,500 ; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 2.
Railroad  Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons,  Sleighs, and  other  vehicles,
establishments for m. of, 1; sleighs m'd, 4; carriages m'd, 18 ; value,
$2,475; value of  stock used, $1,150 ; cap., $600; hands emp.,  2.
Marble and other kinds of stone, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $750 ; value of Gravestones, Monuments, and Mantles, m'd, $2,400 ; cap., $600; bands emp., 8.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; bbls.  of sot\ soap m'd, 585; value, $10,000 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 4.
Master Buildere, 6 ; Buildings erected, 11 ; value, $21,275 ; value of materials used, $12,175 ; bands emp., 9.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $81000 ; value of work done,
$9,600 ; cap., $2,100 ; bands emp., 10.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASS.ACHUS_E'lTS. 	871
MIDDLESEX   Co.	MALDEN.

Tin Ware Manuf'actories,  2 ; value  of stock  used,  $760 ; value  of tin
ware m'd, $1,850;  cap., $650.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dyestuff's, establishments for the m. of,  1; value of stock used, $800; value of botanic medicines m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $1,200;  m. emp., 4.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 25,000 ; value, $45,000 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 5,000 ; value, $42,000 ; p., $20,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 5 ; value of stock used, $280,- 800 ; Hides tanned, 190,000 ; bides tanned and curried, 138,600 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $288,800 ; cap., $188,400 ; bands emp., 77.
Patent and Enamelled Leather, establishments for m. of, 1; '\"alue of stock  used,  $66,000 ;  value of  patent  and enamelled  leather m'd,
$116,000 ; cap., $66,000 ; bands emp., 88.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 100 ; groea value of stock used, $500 ; value of  boots m'd, $750 ; cap., $100; m. emp., 1.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods, and · Bonnets, establishments for m.  of,  1 ; value   of  stock   used,   $26,000 ;  value   of   bats   and   bonnets m'd,
$40,000 ; cap., $15,000;•m. emp., 16 ; t emp., 40.
Brick Yards, 5 ; bricks m'd, 1,580,000 ; value,  $10,740; cap., $7,000;
bands emp., 17.
Snuff'; Tobacco, and  Cigars m'd, value,  $1,500 ; value of stock  used,
$600 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., J.
Blocks and Pumpe, estabiishments  for m. of,  1; value  of stock used,
$200 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $900 ; cap., $500 ; bands emp., 1.	.
Last  and  Shoe  Peg  Manufactories,  1; value  of stock  used, $4,160;
pairs of lasts m'd, 22,000; value, $1.4,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; bands emp., 10.
India Rubber Goods, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$875,000 ; Blankets m'd, 100,000; pairs of boots and shoes m'd, 175,000; value, $450,000 ; cap., $200,000 ; m. emp., 80; £ emp., 70.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,250 ; value of gas m'd, $10,000 ; cap., $66,000 ; bands emp., 4.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $19,000; value of Bread m'd, $25,000;
cap., $5,000 ; bands emp., 1O.
Beer, value m'd, $1,000 ; value of stock used, $200 ;cap., $700 ; bands
emp., 1.
Firewood and Bark  prepared  for market,  cord',  428 ; Taine, S2,996 ;
cap., $400.
872	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
M.U.  lLBOROUGB.	MIDDLESEX   Co.

Farms, 78; acres, 1,967 ; value, including Buildings,  $613,568 ;   acres
improved, 1,767 ; persons emp., 111.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 200.
Woodland, acres, 822 ; value, $81,280.
Indian Com, acres, 411; bush., 1,482 ; value, $2,284.
Rye, acres, 19; bush., 408 ; value, $605. Oats, acres, 1; bush., 60 ; value, $60.
Potatoes, acres, 100 ; bush., 9,195 ; value, $9,105. Turnips cultivated 88 field crop, acres, 4f ;value, $407. Onions, acres, 7 ; bush., 944 ;  value, $1,261.
Carrots, acres, f ; bush., 165; value, $87.
Cabbage, acres, 16 ; value, $2,250.
Winter SqU88h, acres, 17l; Talue of products, $2,485.
Beets, bush., 480 ; value, $165.
English Mowing, acres, 724; tons of English bay, 782 ; value, $21,117.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 102 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay,  901;  value, $1,597.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 627; tons of  salt hay, 627 ; value, $11,286.
.Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,145_; value of apples, $1,802; Pear·trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,162 ; value of pears, $8,315; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 623 ; value of fruit, $176; value of Currants cultivated or gathered for market, $400 ; value of Grapes,  $75.
Horses,   391 ; value,   $49,525;  Oxen  over   four  years  old,  2 ; value,
$200 ; Milch  Cows,  809 ; Heifers,  9 ; value  of  cows and heifers,
$18,992 ; gallom of Milk sold, 107,290; value, $26,119.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 442,000 ; value, $48,860.
Swine, 195; value, $8,529; value of Poultry sold, $158 ; value of Eggs sold, $477; lba. of Honey, 144; value, $72 ; value of unenumerated articles  of  Farm Produce, $7,800.
Wadding Manufactories,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $20,000; value m'd,
$50,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; m. emp., 14 ; f. emp., 5.
Perfumery, establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd, $76,000 ; value of stock used, $55,000; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 15.


MARLBOROUGH.
:Mechanics'  Tools   m'd,  and   not   elsewhere   enumerated,   gross  value,
$11,120; value of stock used, $4,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 7.
OrgaDs,  Melodeoos,  and  Harmoniums,   manufactories  of,  1;  Instro-
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	S7S
:Mn>DLESEX Co.	!iuBLBOBOUGB.

ments m'd, (organ,) 1; value, $1,200 ; value of stock used, $800 ; cap.,
$500 ; bands emp., 1.
Printing  and  Newspaper   Establishments,   1;  value  or  stock  used,
$828.09 ; newspapers printed, (Pioneer,) 1; lil8Ued weekly ; gross
value, $240 ; cap., $2,000 ; value of all other printing done, $600 ;
m. emp., S; f. emp., 1.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$875 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 8,900 ; value, $2,485 ; cap., $1,550 ; m. emp., 8.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, S ; ba.meues m'd, 88 ; value, $1,880; value of stock used, $810; cap., $'50 ; bands emp., 4.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; wagons m'd, 6 ; value, $1,000 ; value of stock used,  $200 ; cap., $500 ; bands  emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $9,150 ; value of clothing m'd, $14,684; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 10.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; bbls. of sot\ soap m'd, 700; value, $4,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 6; Buildings erected, 21 ; value, $48,000 ; value of materials used, $81,500 ; bands emp., 81.
Blacksmith  Shops, 6; value of  stock used,  $8,600;  value of work done,
$5,750 ; cap., $2,500 ; bands emp., 10.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of  stock  used, $4,050 ; value of  tin
ware m'd, $5,800 ; cap.,	000 ; bands emp.,5.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 116,028; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 2,725,393; gross value of stock uaed, $1,768,050; value  of boots and ehoes m'd, $2,338,817 ; cap., $427,500; m. emp., 1,436 ; £ emp., 462.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for  m.  of,  2 ; value  of  stock  used,
$400 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $1,900 ; cap., $900; bands emp., S.
Last .M.anu&etoriee, 2; value of stock used, $2,200 ; laats m'd, 44,000 ; value,  $18,970;   cap.,  $8,500  ;  bands  emp., U.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, I ; value or stock used, $8,000 ; value
of wooden boxes made, $12,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 10.
Gas, establishments for m. of, I ; value of  stock U8ed, $1,000 ; value  of
gas m'd, $1,800 ; cap., $5,000; hands emp , 1.
lee for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved,
800 ; value, $600 ; cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 2.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock uaed, $2,000 ; value of Bread m'd, $8,500 ;
cap., $500 ; hands  emp., 8.
874	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
MARLBOROUGH.	Mm»LESF.X    Co.

Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $800 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw  :Mills, 8; feet  of lumber  prepared  for  market,  425,000; value,
$8,500 ; cap., $2,800 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood  prepared  for  market,  cords,  1,880;  value,  $5,805 ; cap.,
$1,400 ; hands emp., 5.
Farms, 241 ; acres 15,362; value, including Buildings, $806,517 ; acres of Jand improved, 7,605 ; persons emp., 428.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,500.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,800. WoodJand, acres, 8,784 ; value, $185,965.
Indian Corn, acres, 894 ; bush.,  18,415 ; value,  $20,122.
Wheat, acres, I- ; bush., 8 ; value, $16.
Rye, acres, 58; bush., 583;  value, $875. Barley, acres, 50 ; bush., 800 ; value, $1,000. Buckwheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 86 ; value, $72. Oats, acres, 84 ; bush.,  1,798;  value,  $1,850.
Potatoes, acres, 404 ; bush., 84,190 ; value, $25,648.
Turnips cultivated as a  field  crop, acres, 41 ; bush., 440 ;,alue, $220.
Onions, acres, 1; bush., 295; value, $517. Carrots, acres, 11- ; bush., 270 ; value, $185. Cabbage, acres, 6; value of products, $1,175. Winter Squash, acres, 5 ; value, $800.
Market Gardening, acres, 8 ; value of products, $600.
Beets  and  other esculent  vegetables,  acres,  4 ;  bush.,  1,245 ; value,
$1,245.
Cranberries, acres, 15 ; bush., 50 ; value, $250.
English   Mowing,  acres,  2,686 ; tons  of   English  hay,  2,899 ; value,
$86,970.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 758; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 770; value, $7,070.
Apple-trees c'1ltivated for their fruit, 87,846 ; value of apples, $14,989; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,282; value of pears, $718 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 740 ; value of fruit,  $280 ;  value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $1,500.
Sheep, 25 ; value, $800 ; lbe. of Wool produced, 200 ; value, $140.
Horses, 520 ; value, $48,575; Asses and Mules, 4; value, $200 ; Oxen over four years old, 205 ; Steers under four years old, 66 ; value of oxen and steers, $17,865;  Milch Cows, 1,107;  Heifers, 170 ; value of cows and heifers, $48,990 ; value of Neat Stock .not embnroed above, (15 Bulls,) $450 ; gallons of Milk sold, 70,800; value, $1 060;
18.]	INDUSTRY   OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	875
MmDLBI Co.	ll&Dl'OBD.

lbs. of Butter sold, 26,886 ; value, $9,285 ; lbs. or Cheese, 700 ; value, $105.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 192,250 ; value, $19,225. Pork, dressed, lbe., 114,055; value, $17,180.25. Mutton, dressed, lbe., 1,780; value, $259.50.
Veal, lbe., 58,885 ; value, $8,075.25.
Swine, 855 ; value, $7,101; value of Poultry sold, $761; value of Eggs sold, $824 ; lbe. of Honey, 258 ; value, $86.
Fancy Wood Work and Shafting for Machinery, establishments for m. of, 8; value or articles m'd, $26,000 ; value of stock ueed, $10,000;
cap., $9,100 ; m. emp., 21; £ emp., 2.


MEDFORD.
C'&lico and Woollen Goods, eetabliebmente for printfug, 1; yards of calico and woollen printed, 2,160,000 ; valuebefore printing, $777,600 ; value  after printing,  $799,200 ; m. emp., 85 ; £ emp., 6.
Ship Yards, 1; value of materials used, $22,500 ; vessels launched, 1;
tonnage, 900 ; value, exclusive of spars, rigging, and sails, $86,000 ;
bands emp., 85.
Master Builders, 2;  Buildings erected, 2 ; value, $6,000 ; value or
materials used, $2,000 ; bands emp., 8.	•
Blacksmith Shope, 8; value of stock used, $7,000; value of work done,
$15,000;·cap., $2,500 ; bands emp., 9.
Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock ueed, $72,000 ; Hides curried, 7,200 ; cap.,  $5,000 ; bands  emp., 15.
Brick  Yards,  5 ;  bricks  m'd,  16,500,000 ;  value,  $128,000 ; cap.,
$155,000 ; bands emp., 175.
Gold Leat; manufactoriee of, 1; value of stock used, $25,000 ; quantity m'd, packages, 2,000 ; value, $81,000; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; £ emp., 8.
Ice for market, eetabliebmente  for  preservation  of, 1; tons preserved,
600 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Bakeries, 2 ; value of stock used, $25,000 ; value or Bread m'd, $47,000 ;
cap., $4,000 ; bands emp., 14.
Distilleries, 1; value of stock used, $89,000 ; bbla. or Liquore distilled,
8,000 ; value, $800,000 ; cap., $75,000 ; bands erop., 7.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 200 ; value, $1,600.
Farms,   10;	746;  value,  including   Bu.iLliDgs,   $147,400 ; acres improved,  468 ; persons  emp.,   46.
876	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
lbLROSZ.	MmDLBSll   Co.

Unimproved Land, acres, 400. Woodland, acres, 800 ; value, $45,000. Indian Corn, acres, 700 ; bush., 1,050.
Rye, acres, 15 ; bush., 800 ; value, $450. Potatoes, bush., 2,000 ; value, $1,500.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8 ; bush., 400 ; value, $120.
Carrots, tons, 12 ; value, $120.
Winter Squash, acres, 5 ; tons, 20 ; value, $800.
Market Gardening, acres, 10 ; value of products, $8,000.  Beets and other esculent vegetables, bush., 600 ; value, $240.
English Mowing, acres, 897 ; tons English bay, 500 ; value, $15,000.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 200 ; tons of salt bay, 200 ; value, $8,000.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,000; value of apples, $400 ; Pear trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,000 ; value of pears,  $8,000.
Horses, 245 ; Oxen over four years old, 24 ; value, $2,400 ; Milch
Cows, 200 ; value,  $12,000 ; gallons  of Milk  sold,  4,080 ; value,
$784.
Swine, 180 ; value, $2,400.


MELROSE.
Ploughs, and other icultural Implements, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $60 ; ploughs m'd, 20 ; value, $160; cap., $50; bands emp., 1.
Cordage Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; Clothes and Window Lines m'd, tons, 6 ; value, $8,300 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $850 ; value of work done,
$1,500; cap., $200 ; bands emp., 4.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dyestuff's, establishments for m. of, 8 ; ,·alue of stock used,  $18,800; value of drugs, medicines,  and  dyestuff8 m'd,
$24,500 ; cap., $11,700; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 2.
Shoes,  pairs  of all  kinds  m'd,  198,590 ;  gn>!S   value  of  stock used,
$816,885 ; value of shoes m'd, $825,000 ; cap., $81,000 ; m. emp., 139 ; f. emp., 79.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 2 ; tons preserved, 4,500 ; value, $2,250 ; cap., $6,500 ; bands emp., 50.
Farms, 89 ; acres, 1,155 ; value, including Buildings, $168,800 ; acres improved, 1,100; persons emp., 70.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 55.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	877
1fIDDLE8U:  Co,	NA.TICE.

Woodland, acres, 258 ; value, $20,440.
Indian Com, acres, 25 ; bush.,  1,000 ; value, $1,000.
Rye, acres, 4 ; bush., 50 ; value, $90,
Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 45 ; value, $45.
Potatoes, acres, 2lf ; bush., 2,718f ; value, $1,859.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, li; bush., 875; value, $187.50.
Cabbage, acres, l ; value, $50.
W-mter Squash, acres, l; value, $100.
English Mowing, acres, 156 ; tons of. English hay, 284 ; value, $4,680.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, 45; tona wet meadow or ewale bay, 45 ; value, $450.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 49; tons of salt hay, 78l ; value, $785.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,800 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 800 ; value of pea.re, $950; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $1,200.
Sheep, 4; groea value, $20 ; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxonyaheep, 27 ; value, $10.80.
Horses, 35 ; value, $5,250 ; Oxen over four years old, 10 ; value, $1,000; Milch Cows, 76 ; Heifers, 16; value of cows and heifers, $8,992 ; gallone of Milk sold, 16,085; value, $4,021,
Beef, dreeeed, lbe., 800,000 ; value,  $120,000.
Pork, dreeeed, lbs., 2,000 ; value, $800.
Veal, dressed, Iba., 3,150 ; value, $412.50.
Swine, 27 ; value, $547 ; value of Eggs sold, $150.
Pelt Manufactory, 1; Sheep Skim, 80,000 ; value, $45,000 ; lbs. of Wool, 60,000; value, $86,000; m. emp., 5.


NATICK.
Cutlery, establishments for m. of, 8; value of stock used, $1,100; value of Shoe Shaves and Shoe Knives m'd, $5,147 ; cap., $4,800; hands emp., 10.
Printing Establishments, 1; value of stock used, '$400 ; value of prin ing done, $1,000 ; cap.; $500 ; m. emp., 1,
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 3 ; value of stock oecd,
$400 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 5,000 ; value, $2,000 ;
cap., $1,400 ; m. emp., 2; £ emp., 1.
Picture Frames, manufaetories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $480 ; articles m'd, 325 ; value, $700 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., half the time, 1.
'8
878	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
NA.TICE.	MmDLESEX   Co.

Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, 2 ; harneseee m'd, 23 ; value, $1,400 ;
value of  stock used,  $600 ; eap., $500 ; hands  emp., 8.
Hat Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $86,000; wool hats m'd, 108,000 ; value, $206,000 ; cap., $70,000 ; m. emp., 100; f. emp.,50. Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 8 ; wagoDS m'd, 12  ; value,  $1,970;  value  of  stock  used,  $525; cap.,  $1,000;
hands emp., 5.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 6 ; value of stock used, $152,2'1 ; value of clothing m'd, $808,469 ; cap., $88,100 ; m. emp., 18; f. emp., 174.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dyestu1Fs, establishments for m. of, 8; value of stock  used, $995 ;  value  of  drugs, medicines,  and  dyestuffis m'd,
$1,990 ; cap., $1,150 ; m. emp., 8.
Boots, pairs  of  all kinds  m'd,  48,997 ; Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,
726,682 ; gross value  of stook used,  $801,206; value of boots and
shoes m'd, $1,166,717 ; cap., $809,500 ; m. emp., 909 ; f. emp., 118.
Blacksmith Shops, 6 ; value of stock used, $2,400; value of work done,
$6,900 ; cap., $8,800 ; hands emp., 8.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 4 ; value of stock used, $8,925 ; value of tin ware and stoves m'd, $9,000 ; cap., $4,900 ; hands emp., 6.
Coffins  and  Burial  Casea  of  all kinds,  manufactories  of,  1; value  of
stock used, $200; coffins made, 76 ; value, $700 ; cap., $500; handa emp.,  1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $11,444 ; value of wooden boxes made, $14,859 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 7.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; value of ice pre­ served, $900 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $8,680; value of Bread m'd, $6,600 ;
cap., $600 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw Mills,  2 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for  market, 285,000 ; value,
$5,405 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 21.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 661 ; value, $8,988 ;
cap., $200.
Peat, cords prepared for market, 75; value, $868.
Farms,  166;  acres,  6,719 ; value, including  Buildings, $507,061 ;
acres improved, 4,007 ; persons emp., 185.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,458. Unimprovable Land, acres, 290. Woodland, acres, 885 ; value, $44,200.
Indian Corn, acres, 199f ; bush., 4,950 ; value, $8,662.
Wheat, acres, t; bush., 8 ; value, $9.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	879
MIDDLJtSBX   Co.	NA.TICK'..

Rye, acres, 8-il ; bush., 4661 ; value, $983. Barley, acres, 81 ; busli., 5841; value, $1,208. Buckwheat, acres, 2f ; bush., 72 ; value, $90. Oats, acres, 35 ; bush., 682; value, $474.
Potatoes, acres, 218 ; bush., 14,878 ; value,  $11,898.  Tomipe cultivated as a field crop, bush., 1,879 ; value, $845. OnioDB, bush., 10 ; value, $20.
Carrots, bush., 989; value, $247.
Cabbage,  value, $1,098.
Winter Squash, value, $650.
Beeta and other esculent vegetables,  bosh., 70;  value,  $22.
Cranbenies, acres, 16 ; bush., 10 ; value, $80.
English   Mowing,  acres,   1,219;   tons  of  English hay, 1,182 ;  value,
$85,460.	•	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 424 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 892 ; value, $5,880.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 13,209 ; value of apples, $7,189 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,516; value of pears, $509 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 402 ; value  of  fruit,  $181; value of  Nota or Benies cultivated or gathered for market,  $173.
Sooth Down Sheep, 24 ; value,  $286; lbe. of Wool  produced,  188  ;
value,  $95.
Horses, 814 ; value, $80,007 ; Oxen over  four years old, 34 ; value,
$2,860 ; Milch Cows, 408 ; Heifers,  55 ; value  of cows and heifers,
$18,868; Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulle, two years old ;) galloDB of Milk sold, 27,681-; value, $4,756; lbe. of  Butter  sold, 8,901 ; value, $1,607.40.
Beef, dreseed, lbe., 8,680; value, $1,199. Pork, dressed, lbe., 77,121; value, $14,884. Mutton, dressed, lbe., 125 ; value, $15.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,590;  value, $1,466.
Swine, 101; value, $1,889; value of Poultry sold, $838;  value  of Egga sold, $1,060; lbe. of Hooey, 75 ; value, $15; value of Toma­ toes, $2,554 ; value of Grapes, $804 ; value of Beaus, $655.
Flax Leather, eetablishmeota for m. of, 8 ; value m'd, $18,064 ; value of stock used, $7,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 10; f. emp., I.
Wood Filling used between the soles of Shoes, establishmeota for m. of, I ;  value  of  stock  used,  $100 ;  value  of filling m'd,  $548;  cap.,
$500; m. emp.half the time, I.
Baee Balle, eetabliehmeota for m. of,  1; value  of balls  m'd,  $12,500  ;
value of  gtocJt used, $3,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 25.
880	,.  ·STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
NBWTON,	MIDDLESEX   Co.


NEWTON.

Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 18,000; cotton oonsumed, lbs., Mi6,000 ; gross value of stock used, $250,000; yards of Print Cloth m'd, 2,421,600 ; gross value, $368,180 ; m. emp., 72 ; f. emp., i47.
Hosiery, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $78,000 ;
Shirts, Drawers, Stockings, Gloves, and  Mittens  m'd,  doz., 25,540;
value, $154,500; lbs. of Yam m'd and not made into hosiery, s;ooo;
value, $12,000 ; cap., $200,000 ; m. emp., 63;  r.emp.,  26.
Rolling, Slitting,  and  Nail  Mills,  1; value :or  stock  used,  $262,500 ;
tons of iron m'd and not made into nails, 1,728 ; value, $800,000 ;
cap., $16,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, fumace.s for m. of, I ; value of stock-used, $12,000; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 800; value, $18,000 ; cap., $5,000; hands emp., 10.
Cotton, '\Yoollen, a.nd other Machinery, establillbments for m. of, 1 ; gross value of stock used, $15,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $45,000; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 50.
Paper Manufactories, 3; tons of stock consumed, 650 ; value, $58,500 ;
tons of paper m'd, 812 ; value, $86,900 ; cap., $60,000 ; m. emp.,22.
Pianoforte l\lanufactories, I ; value of stock used, $2,000; pianofortes m'd, 42 ; value, $8,000; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Ilat and Cap Manufactories, I ; value of stock used, $4,000 ; hats and caps m'<l, 9,600 ; value, $4,800 ; cap., $2,000; m. emp., 1 ; f. emp., 2. Soap, establillhments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,()00 ; bbls. of soft soap  m'd,  125 ; value,  $488 ;  lbs. of hard soap  m'd, 59,091;
value, $8,152 ; cap., $2,000;  hands cmp., 2.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 4 ; value, $26,500; value of materio.11:1 used, $8,900 ; hands emp., 22.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $4,450 ; value of work done,
$13,500 ; cap., $5,800 ; hands emp., 15.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $20,000; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $70,000; cap., $10,000; hands emp., 40.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 5; value of stock used, $2,800 ; value of tin ware m'd, $4,200; eap., $2,800 ; hands emp., 8.
Glue Manufactories, and manufactories for the preparation of Gums, 1;
value of stock used, $720 ; value of glue and gums m'd, $800 ; cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 3.
Casks, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $488 ; casks m'd, 866 ; value, $997 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
1865.]	L.	USTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	881
MIDDLESEX  Co.	NEWTON.

Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $12,000 ; value of paper boxes made, $20,000 ; cap., $10,000 ;  m.  emp.,  6 ;  (.  emp., 80.
Ice for market, establishments for  preservation  of, 8 ; to ns of ice pre­
aerved, 4,000 ; value, $2,000; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Bakeries, 1 ; value of stock used, $4,400 ; value of Bread m'd, $15,600; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 2,800 ; value,  $16,800.
Farms, 148 ; acres, 5,885; va1ue, including Buildings, $1,170,200 ;
acres improved, 2,882 ; pereons employed, 225. Unimproved  Land, acres, 486.
Unimprovable  Land,  acres,  131. Woodland,  acres, 1,758  ;  value, $198,800.
Indian Corn, acres, 144 ; bush., 5,444 ; value, $10,888.
Rye, acres, 69 ; bush., 1,149 ; value, $2,298. Barley, acres, 11; bush., 158 ; value, $816. Oats, acres, 41; bush., 80; value, $70.
Potatoes, acres, 106f ; bush., 8,929 ; value, $8,929.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field  crop,  acres,  40 ;  bush.,  6,820 ; va1ue,
$2,528.
Onions, acres, 21 ; bush., 404 ; value, $808. Carrots, acres, 181; bush., 8,740 ; value, $1,870. Cabbage, acres, 11; value, $3,088.
Wmter Squash, acres, 15!- ; value, $1,784.
Market Gardening, acres, 177 ; value of products,  $24,489.
Beeta and other eeculent vegetables, acres, 8 ; bush., 477 ; value, $288 ; value of  Garden Seeds prepared for market, $210.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,888;  tons of English hay,  1,667 ; value,
$58,845.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 878 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 810 ; value, $4,650.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 9,115 ; value of apples, $2,089; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,488 ; value of pears, $8,879 ; va1ue of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $5,624.
Sheep, 13 ; value, $150.
Horses, 664 ; value, $65,470 ; Oxen  over four years old, 42 ;  value,
$3,950 ; Milch Cows, 578 ;  Heifers, 15;  value of  cows and heifers,
$82,195; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (1 Bull,) $50; gallons of Milk sold, 75,536 ; value, $16,915.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 552,000 ; value, $71,800. Pork, dreesed, lbs., 79,825 ; value, $18,'86.
382	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
NORTH  READING,	MIDDLESEX   Co.

Mutton, dressed, lbe., 51,000 ; value, $5,850. Veal, dreelled, lbs., 30,980 ; value, $8,968.
Swine, 190 ; value, $8,580 ; value of Eggs sold, $478 ; value of Cur­ rants sold, $100;  value of  Greenhouse Plants and Cut Flowers  sold,
$2,400 ; value of Grapes sold, $2,500 ; value of Tomato Plants and Lettuce sold, (raised in hot beds,) $4,076 ; value of Nursery Trees sold, $2,900.
Grinding Dyewoods, establishments for, 1; T"alue of stock, before being ground,  $75,000 ; value  m'd,  $85,000 ;cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Carver's Establishment, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of work done, $3,000 ; cap., $1,600 ; hands emp., 8.


NORTH  READING.

Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock oaec1, $600 ; value of work done,
$1,800 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 1.
Cabinet Manofactories, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of Chairs and Cabinet Ware m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 18,200 ;gross value of stock used, $22,750 ; value of boots m'd, $81,900 ;cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 80; £ emp., 25. Saw Mills, 2 ; feet of Lumber prepared. for market, 900,000 ; value,
$16,200 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 50,000 ; value, $150 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 3,888; vuue, $15,532 ; hands emp., 50.
Farms,  88 ; acres,  989 ; value,  including  Buildings,  $886,150 ; acres
improved, 1,100 ; persons emp., 125. Unimproved  Land, acres, 1,678.
·Unimprovable Land, acres, 100. Woodland, acres, 4,185 ; value, $206,750.
Indian Corn, acres, 181; b.ush., 8,668; value, $5,502. Rye, acres, 12 ; bush., 102;  value, $151.
Barley, acres, 11; bush., 94 ; value, $141. Oats, acres, 3 ; bush., 50 ; value, $50.
Potatoes, acres, 100 ; bush., 8,589; value, $8,589.
Turnips cultivated as a field ·crop, acres, 1; bush., 200 ; value, $75. Cabbage, acres, 5 ; value, $300.
Mket Gardening, acres, 6 ; value of products, $500.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2 ; bush., 300 ; value, $150.


..
1866.]   ·	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	388
MIDDL1teu  Co.	PEPPDBLL.

Cranberries, acres, 60 ; bush., 76 ; value, $228.
English Mowing, acres, 670 ; tons of English hay, 575 ; value, $14,875.
Wet Meadow or Swale moWD, acres, 686; tons wet meadow or swale hay,  468 ; value, $5,6116.
Apple-trees cultivated ror their fruit, 4,072 ; value of apples, $1,919 ;
Pear-trees cultivated  for  their  fruit,  677 ; value  of pears,  $218;  all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 55 ; value of fruit, $28 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $887.
Sheep, 7 ; value, $70; lbs. of  Wool  produced from Saxony sheep, 85 ;
value, $85.
Horses, 97 ; value, $7,285 ; Oxen over four years old, 69 ; value, $5,540 ; Milch Cows, 217 ; Heifers, 84 ; value of cows and heifers, $9,888 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (10 Goats,) $50 ; gallons of Milk sold, 2,986 ; value, $746 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,489 ; value,
$2,995.
Beet; dreseed, lbs., 862,800; value, $86,280. Pork, dressed, lbs., 46,000 ; value, $7,666. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 6,000 ; value, $840.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 15,000 ; value, $1,875.
Swine, 57 ; value, $999 ; value of Poultry sold, $975 ; value of Eggs
sold, $77G ; lbs. of Honey, 90; value, $45.




PEPPERELL.

Shoddy, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $16,000 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 52,000 ; value, $28,500 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 18.·
Cutlery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000; Pocket Knives m'd, 3,000 ; value, $8,000 ; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 5.
Paper Manufactories, 8; tona of stock COD!Umed, 760 ; value, $28,000 ; toll8 of printing paper m'd, 282 ; value, $45,120 ; tons of wrapping paper m'd, 120 ; value, $12,000 ; m. emp., 14 ; f. emp., 14.
Hast.er Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 5 ; value, $20,000 ; value of materials used, $12,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; Talue of work done,
$3,000 ; cap., $2,200 ; hands emp., '-
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 250 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd,   16,650;
gross value of stock U!ed,  $11,650 ; value of boots and shoes  m'd,
$17,375 ; cap., $6,500 ; m. emp., 86 ; £ emp., 0.
884	STATISTICS OF THE	[1866.
PEPPERELL.	MIDDLlt8ll  Co.

Casks, establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value   of  stock   used,   $800 ; C88ks
m'd, 8,000 ; value, $1,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Saw Mills,  4 ; feet  of Lumber prepared  for  market,  790,000 ; value,
$10,270 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves  prepared  for mar• ket, 487,000 ; value, $2,800 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 175 ; acres, 10,629 ; value, including Buildings, $350,000 ; acres
of land improved, 8,666 ; persons emp., 188. Unimproved Land, acres, 1,963.
Woodland,  acres, 1,423 ; value,  $85,380.
Indian Com, acres, 825 ; bush., 8,509 ; value, $9,360. Rye, acres, 77 ; bush., 635 ; value, $794.
Barley, acres, 16 ; bush., 220 ; value, $132. Buck.wheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 70 ; value, $60. Oats, acres, 175; bush., 4,150 ; value, $2,430.
Potatoes, acres, 140 ; bush., 11,082 ; value, $5,541.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 10 ; bush., 200 ; value, $50. Hops, acres, 4 ; lbs., 1,500 ; value, $450.
Cranberries, acres, 11; bush., 50 ; value, $150.
English  Mowing,  acres, 2,054 ; tons of English bay, 1,950 ; value,
$87,050.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 595 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 483;  value, $8,464.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,687 ; value of apples, $4,800 ; Pear-trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit,  200 ; value  of  pears,  $75 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 150 ; value of fruit, $60 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $264.
Merino Sheep, of different grades, 25 ; all other kinds of sheep, 208 ; gross value of all sheep, $1,000 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 125 ; value,
$100 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 832 ; value, $624.
HorBee, 260 ; value, $28,580 ; Oxen over four years old, 118; Steers under four years old, 50 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,160 ; Milch Cows, 600 ; Heifers, 187 ; value of cows and heifers, $23,681 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (9 Bulls, 2 Goats,) $252 ; gallons of Hilk sold, 8,558; value, $143; lbs. of Butter  sold, 19,695 ; value, $4,924; lbs. of Cheese, 2,150 ; value, $258.
Beef, dressed, 1m:, 24,800 ; value, $1,984. Pork, dressed, lbs., 72,050 ; value, $8,700. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 500 ; value, $50.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 23,008 ; value, $2,300.
Swine, 158 ; value, $2,500 ; value of Poultry sold, $336 ; value of Egge sold,  $1,012.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	885
MmotEsEx   Co.	READING.

Cloth m'd ·in the family, (Frockings,) yards, 50 ; value, $62.
Water  Wheels,  establishments  for  m.  of;  1; value  of  wheels   m'd,
$10,000 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 4. Belt Fasteners, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000;
value m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 1.


READING.
Organs, Melodeons, and Harmoniums, manuf'actories of, 1 ; value of stock used, $500 ; Instruments m'd, 1; value, $1,400 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
Organ Pipe Manufaetories, 1; value of stock used, $10,000 ; value m'd,
$25,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$100; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 500 ; value, $400; cap.,
$100 ; m. emp., 1.	·
Clothing, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $2,400 ; value of clothing m'd, $4,800 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1 ; £ emp., 5.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 11; value, $85,860 ; value of materials used, $55,150 ; hands emp., 17.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of work done,
$8,200 ; cap., $200 ; hands cmp., 7.
Cabinet l\lanufactories, 10 ; value of stock used, $29,800 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $77,900 ; cap., $15,700 ; hands emp., 53.
Tin Ware Manuf'actories,  1 ; value  of stock  used, $500 ; value  of tin
I
ware m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Shoes,  pairs  of   all  kinds  m'd,  359,075;   gross  value  of  stock  used,
$146,249 ; value of shoes m'd, $247,658 ; cap., $17,000 ; m. emp., 244 ; £ emp., 124.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for m. of; 1; value of stock us
$400 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $700 ; cap., $200 ; han4& emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, l ; value of stock used, $300 ; value of wooden boxes made, $400 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp., 1.
lee for marke establishments for preservation of, l ; tons preserved, 1,200 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 2 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, 250,000 ; value,
$50,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 80.

f9
886	STATISTICS OF THE	(1866.
RliDIKCn	Ma>DL:Ull   Co.

Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,950 ; value, $7,800 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 80.
Farms, 77 ; acree, 8,502 ; value, including Buildings, $817,858 ; acres improved, 2,289 ; penons emp., 107.
Unimproved  Land, acres,  620.
Woodland,  acres, 985 ; value, $78,285.
Indian Corn, acres, 180; bush., 2,860 ; value, $5,720. Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 8; value, $16.
Rye, acres, 22; bush., 94 ; vaJue, $170. Barley, &Cl'¥, 1; bush., 5; value, $10. Oats, acres, 4 ; bush., 61 ; value, $60.
Potatoes, acres, 51; bush., 8,187 ; value, $8,000. Ouions, acres, l ; bush., 200 ; value, $850.
Carrots, acree, 2 ; bush., 800 ; value, $820. Cabbage, acres, 2; value, $155.
Wmter Squash, acres, 1; value, $100.
Market Gardening, acres, 1; value of products, $4:15. Tobacco, acres, l; lbs., 150; value, $60.
Cranberries, acres, 27 ; bush., 87 ; value, $142.
English   Mowing,   acres,  655 ;  i9ns  of   English  hay,  626;  value,
$18,586.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown. acres, 677; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 471 ; value, $6,514.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,708 ; value of apples, $1,885; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,677; value of pears, $460 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 825; value of fruit, $125 ; value of Nut.a or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $210.
Sheep, 70 ; gross value, $600 ; lbe. of Wool produced, 66 ; value, $40.
Horses, 167 ; value, $13,560 ; A.8ses and Mules, 1; value, $50 ; Oxen over four years old, 26 ; value, $2,570; Milch Cows, 814 ; Heifers,
·24 ; value of cows and heifers, $12,686 ; gallons of Milk sold, 24,971 ; value,. $6,242; lbe. of Butter sold, 5,215 ; value, $2,086.
dressed, lbe., 4:14,400 ; value, $49,728. Pork, dressed, lbs., 44,022; value, $7,925. Mutton, dressed, lbe., 7,188; value, $1,072. Veal,  dressed, lbe.  19,480;   value, $2,942.
Swine, 886 ; value, $10,241 ; value of Poultry sold, $211; value of Eggs sold, $584 ; lbs. of Honey, 850; value, $105 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, $2,650.
Value of all other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated,  $500.
l&e6.]	INDUSTltY  OJ' JU8SAOBUSETrS. 	187
IIJDDLUU  0o.	8BPBPOU.


SHERBORN.
Bailro.d c.n, Oieebea, Oiaiaea, Wagom, Sleighs, and other vehicles, eeeabtiebmenta mr m. ot; 2 ; nlae m'cl, $1,760; value or ltock med, tiOO ; cap., teOO; .....emp., 2.
Muter Builden, t ; BuilcJiDgt	8 ; value, $8,IOO; value of
materials 1INd, $5,650 ; hands emp., 6.
Blacbmith $i.op., 2 J ftlue of  stock 1l8ed, $800 ;valu ot wort done,
'1,700 ; cap., $1,2t6 ; ._.emp., 2.
8boel,  pain of  all  kin.is m'd,  81,860 ; 8l'Ol9  value  or etoek med,
tt7,160 ; 't'8lue ot alloee m'd, UB,'80; cap., $4,600; m. emp., 26 ;
£ emp., 8.
St:n.w Braid m'd, ftlae, $1,000.
Whip Manufaetoriee,  2 ; value of stock 1l8ed, $76 ; dONII of whips
m'd, 250 ; value, $700 ; m. emp., 2.
Willow Ware, eetabliehmema ht m. of; 2, handa emp., 6.
Saw Mills, 2 ; feet of lumber prepared  for market,  too,oeo; value.
$4,000;  Sbinglel prepared   for  market,  95,000;  valae,  tm; eap.,
$1,toO; bands emp., 8.
l'INwood  prepared  l>r  market,  cords,  1,225 ; nlue,  $5,000;    cap.,
$8,.500 ; hande emp., 8.
P8l'Dllt  140;  aerea,  9,00.; value,  incladiog  Builctings,  $500,760 ;
acres improved, 7,020 ; penam emp., 212.
Unimproved Lend, acres, 1,984. Unimprovable Lend, acres, 289. WoocUaod, acres, 961; value, $64,585.
Indian Coro, acres, 246 ; bush., 6,7"8 ; valae, $12,122.
Wheat, acres, 81;·bueh., 94 ; value, $t82.
Rye, acres, 48 ; bueh., &St ; value, $1,664. Barley, acres, Mi; bash., 1,126 ; nloe,$1,989. Buckwheat, acres, 8; bush., 26; value, $26.
Oats, acres, 60 ; bub., 1,170;  value, $1,470. White Beane, acres, 16; buah., lat ; value, $5.(6. Po&uoee, acres, 1081; bush., 7,.00; value, $7,.(()().
Turnips cultivated ae a field crop, acret, ll; bub., 890 J valae, $156.
Cabbage, acres, 51; value, $600.
Market Gardening, acres, S; value of produeta, $200.
:e.aket Willow cultiva&ecl, aerea, 7 ; value after hanening, $.(90.
Cnmberriee, acre1, 151; bush., 26 ; ftlae, $100.
English   Mowing,   acres,   1,410;   tou  or Engliah haf, 1,463;   value,
$.(8,890.
ass	STATISTICS   OF  THE	(18$6.
SaraLsT.	ll1DDLZ8EX   Oo,

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 8181; tona of wet meadow or swale bay, 686; value, $8,282.
Apple-treee cmltivated for their fruit, 17,397 ; value of apples, $9,360 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 172 ; value of pears, $llO ; value of Grapes, $284: ; V'alue of Nll&e or Berries oultivated or gath­ ered  for  market,  (Strawberries,   $668, other  berries,  $75,) $788.
Sheep, 16 ; value,  $140 ; lbs. of  Wool produced,  80 ; value, $80.
Horses, 159 ; value, $14,920 ; Oxen over four yean old, 149; Steers under four years old, 72; value of oxen and stleenl, $18,875; Milch Cows, 508 ; Heifers, 104 ; value of cows  and heifers,  $81,316; value of. Neat Stock not embraced above, (19 heifers and ateen leas than  six  months  old,)  $175 ; gallona  of  Milk  sold,  6,456 ; value,
$1,585; lbs. of Butter sold, 22,727 ; value, $8,887 ; Iba. of Cheeae, 200 ; value, $20.	.	.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 186,287; value, $17,060. Pork, dressed, lbs., 82,076 ; value, $14,205. Veal, dressed, lbs., 38,874 ; value, $5,212.
Swine, (over aix months, 122, less than six moalhl, ll6,) 288; value,
(over six months, $2,765, less than six months, $726,) $8,590 ; "Value of Poultrysold, $956; value of Eggs sold, $1,928; lbs. of Honey, 500 ; value, $225.
Vm'  egar and  Cider  m'd,  5,100  bbl& ; value,  $39,800 ; value  of sfA>ck
uaed, $19,400 ; cap., $82,000 ; m. emp., 12.


smRLEY.
Cotton Mills, 4 ; spindles, 13,088 ; cotton consumed, lbs., ll4,284 ; gross value of- stock used, $188,561 ; yards of Cotton Cloth m'd, (Sheet­ ings,) 182,458; gross value, $91,226; lbs. of Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 45,871 ; gross value, $90,742; cap., $56,000 ; m. emp., 80 ; f. emp., 40.
Rolling, Slitting, and Nail Mills, (horse-shoe nail,) 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ; machines, 801 tons of nails m'd, 100; value, $50,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 80.
Shovels, Spades, Forks, and Hoes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000; dozens of skates m'd, 17 ; dozens of forks m'd, 400; value, $9,000; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 8,
Hoop Skirts, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; skirts m'd, 500 ; value, $550; cap., $125 ; £ emp., 1.
INDUSTBT OF HASSACHUSETI'S.	889:
                                                             $mu.!EY,

Paper Manufactories, 2; tons of stock CODSumed, 466; value, $40,100; tons of printing paper m'd, 72 ; 'Value, $26,000 ; tons of wrapping paper m'd, 88; value, $9,000; tone of pasteboard  m'd, 200; value,
$22,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; m.emp., 25.
Saddles, Haniesses, and.Trww, establiebmenta for m. o( 1; hamesaes m'd, 200; value, $3,000 ; value of atoclr.: 1118d, $1,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2,
Railroad Cars, Coechee, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. o( 1; number m'd, (100 wagons, IM carts,) 260; value, $16,000; ftlue of ekJck ued, $5,000; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 15.
Clothing, eatablisbmenta for m. o( 1; value of at.oek used, $400 ; value of clothing aid, $750; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops,4 ;value oC stock used, $900 ;value  oC  work  done,
$2,700; cap., $1,000 ;hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $3,000 ; 'falue oC tin
wve m'd, $6,000; cap., $8,000 ; bands emp., 6.
Palm Leaf Ha&a made, 7,476 ; value, $1,869.
Saw Mills, 4 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 800,000 ; value,
$12,000 ; LMha, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, (Shingles,) 50,000 ; value, $150; cap., $2,000; hands emp., 7.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,400 ; value, $5,600.
Corn and other Brooms m'd, 19,200; value, $6,(00 ; value of stock oon11umed, $2,300 ; cap., $2,000 ; bande emp., 5.
Farms, 154; acres, 9,958 ; value, including Buildings, $556,725; acres of land improved, 1,582 ; penons .emp., 155.
Unimprov  Land, acree, 5,465. Unimprovable  Land, acree, 629.
Woodland, acres, 2,119; value, $76,885.
Indian Corn, aeree, 171; bush., 5,686 ; value,  $8,629. Wheat, acres, 7i; bush., 104 ; value, $208.
Rye, acres, 48; buah., 523 ; value, $784.50. Barley, acres, 16 ; bush., 178 ; value, $29.50. Buckwheat.. acres, 17 ; bush., 208 ; value, $260. Oata, acres, 86; bush., 722; value, $541.50.
Beans, acres, U ; bush., 211 ; value, $688.
Potatoes, acres, 102 ; bush., 9,882 ; value, $5,900.
Turnips cultivated aa a field crop, acres, 2 ; bush., 800 ; value, $100.
Onions, acres, ll ; bush., 811 ; value, $622. Carrota, acres, 1; bush., 425; value, $212.50. Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $150.
390	STATISTICS OP THE	[l&a.
8omvn.LB.	X.DDLEIU    Co.

W"mter 8q11&1h, acret!, f ; nlue, $180.
Garden Seeds, aeres, Si; value, $700.
Market Gardening, aeres, 11 value or produeta,  $76.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, lJ ; bush., 26$; value, $212;
value or Garden Seeds prepared b- market, $750.
Hops, acres, M ; lbe., 25,050 ; value, $8,!21.
Basket 'Willow cult.ivated, acres, l ; value, $70.
English   Mowing,  acres,  1,067 ; tons  or  Englilh  ha1,  J,071 1  value,
$26,775.          •
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 427 1 tons or wet meadow or swale
bay, 891 ;value, $4,887.50.
Appl&trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,090 ; value or apples, $8,SH;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 155; value or  pears, $120 ;  all other trees cultivated for their fruit, (Peaohee,) 100; value or fruit, $275; value or Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for mar­ ket,  $788.
Sheep, 42; value, $194; lbs. or Wool produced, 148;  value, $88.80.
Hones, 162 ; value, $18,680 ; Oxen over four  1ean  old,  56;  Steen under four ,ears old, 26 1 value of oxen and steers, $4,875; Milch Cows, 884; Heif'en, 25 ; value of cows and  heif'era,  $17,2!4 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced aboTe, (51 one -year old, 26 two
,ean old,) $1,477 ; gallODS of  Hilk eold,  66,782; value,  $10,000 ;
lbs. or Butter aold, 1,620 ; value, $684.
Beet; dreeeed, lbe., 25,050 ; value, $2,605.
Pork, clreaaed, lbs., 88,3 5; value, $6,180.
Vea1, clreaaed, lbe., 48,890 ; value,  $4,889.
Swine, 82 ; value, $1,694 ; value of Poultry IJOld, $441 ; value or Egg9
aold, $861; lbs. of Honey, 615 ; value, $184.50.
Value of Fancy Articles m'd by the Shaken, $100.
Axehelves, establishments for m. of, 1; dozens of axebelves m'd, 200; value, $600; value of stock U8ed, $150; cap., $100 1 m. emp., 1.
Basket M.anufactories, 2 ; value of stock OIied, $800; baskets m'd, 16,000 ; value, $6,000 ; hands emp., 8.


SOMERVILLE.
Calico and Mo111111eline de Laine, establishments for printing, 1; yards of goods bleached and colored and not printed, 6,000,000 ; value before bleaching and coloring, $1,250,000 ; value af\er, $1,870,000 ; cap., 8100,000 ; m. emp., 75; £ emp., 16.
18S5.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSA.CHUSE'ITS. 	891
MIDDLESEX Co.	8oDBVJLLL
Spike Factory, 1; value of stock used, $45,000 ; machines, S ; tons of
spikes m'd, 450 ; value, $65,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 15. Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1;
value of stock used, $24,000 ; tons of hollow·ware and other caatinga
m'd, 600 ; value, $60,000 ; cap.,·$20,000; hands emp., 80.
Tobe Works, 1; value of stock used, $1,000,000 ; value of brass and
copper tubes m'd, $1,200,000; cap., $200,000 ; hands emp., 175.
Glass Manu&ctories, 1; value of stock used, $150,000 ; value of Table Ware and Lampe m'd, $250,000 ; cap., $200,000; hands emp., 260.
Saddles, Haroeeses, and Trunks, establiahments for m. of, 1; tnmb m'd, 4,500 ;value, $5,800 ; value of stock used, $3,000 ; cap., $8,500; hands emp., 4.
Blacbmith Shope, 2 ; value of stock used, $700; value of work  done,
$2,800 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Brick Yards, 6 ; bricks m'd, 6,000,000 ; value, $72,000; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 42.
Blocks and Pnmpe, establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of  stock   used,
$liOO ;value of  blocks and pumps m'd, $2,800;  cap., $4,000 ; bands
emp., 2.
Ladder Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; ladders m'd, 1,500 ; value,  $2,600 ; cap.,  $2,000 ; hands  emp., 8.
Earthen Ware, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of earthen ware m'd, $10,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 12. Pickles and Preserves, establishments mr m. of, 2; value of stock used,
$4,000 ; value of picklea  and preserves  m'd,  $6,700 ; cap.,  $12,000 ;
hands emp., 14.
Bakeries, 2; value of stock used, $12,000; value of Bread m'd, $20,000;
cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Sheep Wash Manufaetory, 1; value of stock used, $7,600 ; value of sheep wuh m'd, $35,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 11.
Alewives taken, bbla., 20;  Taine, $100;  bands emp. two montbJ,  2.
Stone Quarries, 1; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared ft>r market,  $2,800 ; cap.,  $6,000 ; hands emp.,   2.
Farma, 22 ; aeres, 550 ; value,  including  Build.inge, $809,000 ; IICl"el
improved, 550 ; pel'IIOD8 emp., .00.
Unimproved Land, ael'8I, 10.
Indianc.om, aeres, I; huh., 100;  value, •100.
Rye, acres, 10; bush., 150; value, $150. Potatoes, ael'8I, U ; bush., 700 ; value, $600. Cabbage, acres, 7 ; Talae of Jh'Oducts, $4.00. W-mter Squash, acres, 4 ; value, $400.
•
892	STATISTICS  OF  T.HE

(1865.
SoOTB Ra.u>1No.	MIDDLESEX     Co.
·Market  Gardening, acres, 40 ; value of. products,  $5,000.
English Mowing, acres, 20 ;tons of Eaglish bay;, 250 ; value, $5,500.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 20; tons wet meadow or swale bay, 22; value,  $880.
Salt Marsh	own, acres, 150; tons of salt hay, 225 ; value, $8,575.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,200 ; value of apples, $800 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 15,000 ; value of pears, $2,000. Horses, 420 ; value, $6,800 ; Oxen over four years old, 2; value, $200 ; Milch Cows, 175 ; value, $8,750; gallons of Milk sold, 8,000; value,
$700.
Swine, 175 ; value, $8,500.
Vinegar  and  Refined  Cider, establishments  for m. of, 1; value  m'd,
$50,000 ; value of stock used, $40,ooo·; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 14.


SOUTH  READING.

Hollow Ware and Castings, othe? than pig iron, furnaces  for  m. of,  1; value of stock used, $88,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd,  716 ; value,  $75,000  ; cap.,  $70,000 ; hands  emp., 50.
Gross value of Mechanics' Tools m'd, and not elsewhere enumerated, (Shoe Tools,) $6,000 ; value of stock used, $1,400 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 10.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$25 ; daguerreotypes  and photographs taken, 400 ; value,  $i00 ;
cap., $500 ; m. cmp., 1.  (Inoperation only one month.)
Saddles, Harnesees, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; hamesses m'd, 18; value, $540; value of stock used, $200 ; cap., $150 ; bands emp., 1.
Clothing,  establishments  for m. of, 1; value  of  stock  uaed,  $4,000 ;
value of clothing m'd, $6,800; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 8.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 7 ; value, $42,000 ; value of
materials used, $12,000 ; bands emp., 12.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $1,500; value of work done,
$4,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 8.
Rattan used in m. of chairs and other articles of furniture and matting, establishments for preparation of, 1; value of stock used, $220,775 ; lbs. of rattan prepared, (80,000. yards matting made,) 1,467,822 ; value, $857,000 ;'cap., $175,000 ; m. emp., 85; £ emp., 210.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $8,000 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 2,
•
1865.]	INDUSTR't  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	898
MIDDLESEX   Co.	SOUTH  READING,

Medicines, establishments for m. of, 1; value or stock used, $10,000 ; value of  medicines IP'd, $15,009;  .p.,  $10,000;  m.   emp.,  1; f, emp., 1.
Boots,  pairs   of  all kinds   m'd,  24,989 ;  Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds   m'd,
184,505 ; gross value of stock used, $126,780 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $199,555 ; cap., $88,000 ; m. emp., 183 ; f. emp., 100.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $750 ; value of wooden boxes made, $1,000 ; cap., $250 ; m. emp., 1.
Razor Strops, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; strops
m'd, 65,000 ; value, $11,000; cap., $2,000; hands emp., 10.
Ice for market, establishments  for preservation  of,  2 ; tons preserved,
20,000 ; value, $8,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of Bread m'd, $6,125 ;
cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 5.
Saw Mills,  1;  feet of Luber prepared  for  market,   0,000 ; value,
$8,000; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market,  cords, 980 ; value,  $5,000 ;
cap., $500 ; bands emp., 8.
Farms, 51; acres, 1,960; value, including Buildings, $59,820 ; acres improved, 636 ; persons employed, 60.
Unimproved  Land,  acres, 1,60(.
Unimprovable  Land, acres,  100.
Woodland, acres, 780 ; value, $51,875.
Indian Com, acres, 55 ; bush., 1,226 ; value, $2,452.
Rye, ac 3; bush., 27 ; value, $51.
Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 55 ; value, $118.
Potatoea, acres, 60 ; bush., t,770 ; value, $3,465;
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8; bush.,  650 ; value, $150.
Cabbage, acres, 5 ; value, $(85.
Cranberries, acres, 15 ; bush., 14 ; value, $50.
English  Mowing, acres, 452; tons of Englil'h  hay, 418;  value,  $12,555.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 271 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 201 ; value, $2,682.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,170 ; value of apples, $2,722 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,978; value  of  pears, $859 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 76 ; value of fruit, $101. Horses,  167 ; value,  $17,090 ; Oxen  over  four years old,	; value,
$475 ; Milch   Cows,  203;  Heifers, 7 ;  value  of  cows  and heifers,
$10,144; gallons of Milk sold, 15,286 ; value, $5,257 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 1,740; value, $525.
Beet; dressed,  lbe., 4H,200 ; value, $52,525.
ao
894:	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
8TOKEB.&.K.	MIDDLESEX   Co.

Pork, dresaed, Iba., 68,829 ; value, $12,500. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 44,500 ; value, $4,900, Veal, dreMed, lbe., 66,058 ; value, $6,525.
Swine, 182; value, $1,664 ; value of Poultry aold, $485 ; value of Eggs
aold, $1,860 ; lbe. of Honey, 200 ; value, $70.


STONEHAM.
Brass Foundries, 1; value of stock used, $4,298 ; value of brass work m'd, $7,219.92 ; cap., $4,869.28 ; bands emp., 18.
Dagoerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$280 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 1,464 ; value, $666;
cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1,
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; value of harness work, $1,000 ; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wa.goos, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $800 ; cap., $600 ; bands emp., 2.	·
Clothing, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $1,017.78; value of  clothing m'd, $1,925; cap., $600 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 2,
Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 7 ; value, $9,000 ; value of materials used, $5,000 ; bands emp., 6.
Blacksmith Shops, 8; value of stock used, $1,050;  value of work done,
$8,000 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories, I ; value of stock used, $2,200 ; value of tin ware m'd, $3,800; cap., $800 ; bands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $112,- 596; Hides tanned, 40,650 ; hides tanned and curried, 40,650 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $126,876 ; cap., $85,000 ; bands emp., 89.
Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,  854,442 ; gross  value  of  stock  used,
$601,070.82 ; value of shoes m'd, $869,088.92 ; cap., $189,500; m. emp., 452 ; f.emp., 287.
Last and  Shoe Peg Manufactories,  1;  value  of  stock  used, $800 ;
lasts m'd, 8,000 ; value, $1,600 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2.
Boxes, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $6,045 ; value of wooden boxes made, $8,407; cap., $8,000; m. emp., 8.
India Rubber  Goods, establishments for  m.  of,  1; value  of  stock used,
$476,157.64 ; value of Shoes, Pails, and Spittoons m'd, $618,314.58; cap., $300,000 ; m. emp., 100; £ emp., 50.
1866.)	INDUSTRY OF IIASSACHUSETI'S.
JlroDLB9U   Co,	STONER.UI.

Ice for market, establishments for preeervation o 2 ; toD8 preserved,
2,800; value, $1,400 ; cap., $2,950 ; hands emp., 1.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock ased, $6,000 ; value of Bread m'd, $7,500 ;
cap., $800 ;hand.I  emp.,  2.	•
Firewood and Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords,  405;  vadoe, $1,805 ;
cap., $2,750.
Farms, i6; acres, l,t34f ; value, including Buildinge, $14965; acret
improved, 380 ; penona emp., .S.
Unimproved Land, acres, 536. Unimprovable Land. aeres, "6. WoocUaod, acres, 258; value, $11,005.
Indian Corn, aorea, 28}; buah., 768 ; value, $1,216.
Bye, aorea, 6\ ; buah., lta ; value, $250. Barley, acres, 71; buah., 80 ; value, $1H. All o&her Grain Crops, value, $200.
Potatoea, aeree, 16; buah., 2,066 ; value, $2,028.
Turnipe cultivated aa a field crop, acres, 7l; buah., 710; value, $SU.
Carrot.a, aeree, 1; bash., 81; value,  $18.75.
CW»bage, aeree, 21; value, $379.
Wm'
ter  SqU88h, acres, 21; value, $880.
English Mowing, eeree, 2151- ;tou of Engliah hay, 207 ; value, $7,9.S. Wet  Meadow  or  Swale mown, 57; tona  wet  meadow or awale  hay,
48 ; value, $800.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,787 ; value of apples, $898 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 317 ; value  of  pears,  $184:; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $34.
Horses, 41 ; value, $4,820; Oxen over four years old, 4 ; Steere under four yea.re old, 2; value of oxen and steers, $700 ; llilch Cows, 97; Heifers, 19; value of cows and heifers, Sli,215 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (1 Bull,) $50 ;ga11onl of Milk aold, 25,981; value, $5,758.52; 1bL ot Butter eold, 2'2;  value, $108.96.
Bee( dreued, lbe., 1,500 ; value, $195. Pork, dreued, lbe., 5,828; value, $1,107.60. Veal, dreaaed, Iba., 990 ; value, $150.
Swine, 53 ; value, $650 ; value of Poultry eold, U().80 ; value of Eggs
aold,  $180.20 ; value  of  unenumerated  article1  of  Farm Prodaee,
$208.
Boot and Shoe Machinery, and detaw of Marine Engines,  value md,
$14,661 ; value of stock used, $4,980; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 15. Stile' niogs and Heels for Boots and Shoes, establishments for m. of, 2 ;
value  of  stock  uaed,  $7,200 ; value  of. good.I  m'd,  $16,800 ; epp.,
St,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 22.
396	STATISTICS OF THE	[ISM.
STOW'.	Mn>n1.aBx  Co.


STOW.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery. 7 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 192,000 ; gross value of stock used, $160,000 ; Y8M8 of Flannel or Blanketing m'd, 714,000; value, $250,000 ; cap., $60,000 ; m. emp., 48 ; f. emp., 28.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; number of each m'd, 12 ; value, $860 ; value of stock ued, Sl80 ; cap., $200 ; hands  emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, WagoDR, Sleigm, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 2 ; number of each m'd,  11; value,  $760 ; value  of  stock  used,  $260 ; cap.,  $800 ; bands  emp., 4.
Blacksmith  Shops, 4 ; value of  stock used, $1,170 .; value of work done,
$4,570 ; cap., $2,250 ; hands emp., 6.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1;. value of stock med, $8,700; Hides tanned, 1,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $12,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Shoes,  pairs  of   all  kinds  m'd,   100,000 ;  gross  value  of  stock  U8ed,
70,000; value of  shoes m'd, $100,000 ; cap., $15,000;  m, emp., 35;
f. emp., 15.
Boxes, establishments for m. o( 1; value of stock used, $166 ; value of wooden boxes made, $832 ; cap., $800; m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of Lumber prep.ared for market, 584,000 ; value,
$9,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood  and Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 5,000.
Farms, 151; acres, 9,930; value, including Buildings; $367,885 ; acres improved, 4,520 ; persons emp., 191,
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,462. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 87. Woodland,  acres, 2,883 ; value, $58,622.
Indian  Corn, acres, 276;  bush., 7,433;  value, $9,514.
Wheat, acres, l; bush., 7 ; value, $14.
Rye, acres, 48 ; bush., 524 ; value, $682, Barley, acres, 48 ; bush., 590; value, $772. Buckwheat,·acres, 1; bush., 2 , value, $2. Oats, acres, 82 ; bush., 1,430 ; value, $1,150.
Potatoes, acres, 186 ; bush., 11,418; value, $7,020. Turnips cultivated as a field crop, bush., 654 ; value, $163. Carrots, bush., 135; value, $67.
Cabbage, acres, l; value, $305,
pa, lbs., 200 ; value, $80.
1885.)	INDUSTRY OF 11.ASSACHUSETTS.	897
Kn>DLUIDX  Co.	

Cranberries, bosh., 81; value, $16.
English Mowing, acres, 1,466 ; tons English hay, 1,800; value, $82,500.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 689; tons of wet meadow or male
hay, 558 ; value, $5,164.
Apple-trees cultivated for theil" fruit, 11,269; value of apples, $4,489 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their hit, 277 ; value of pears, $26 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultimed or gathered for market, $276.
Horses, 167 ; value, $11,960 ; Oxen over four years old, 122 ; Steen
under four yean old, 91 ; value of oxen and eteen, $14,H2 ; Milch Cows, 589 ; Heifen, 46 ; value of cows and heifers,  $19,668 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, $678 ; gallons of Milk  sold, 68,808 ; value, $13,286 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 21,282 ; value, $9,920 ; lbs. of	675;  value,  $77.
Bee( dreeeed, value, $20,706.
Pork, dreeaed, lbs., 57,186 ; value, $8,813.
Veal, dreaed, value,  $8,968.
Swine, 102 ; value, $2,148 ; value of Poultry sold, $798 ; value of Eggs eold, $577 ; lbe. of  Honey,  801; value,  $97; Talae of  Beans, $277.


SUDBURY.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 26; lbs. Scoured Wool consumed, 450,000; groea value of stock used, $815,000 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing m'd, (flannel, 1,560,547 yards, blankets, 44,798,) 1,605,345; value,  $565,000 ; cap., $200,000 ; m. emp., 194 ; f. emp.  178.
Tack and Brad Manufactories, 1; value of stock  used,  $11,000 ; tons of tacks and brads m'd, 45 ; value, $U,7M ; cap., $2,500;  hands emp., 6.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 400 ; value, $36,000 ; tons of hanging paper m'd, 800 ; value, $78,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; m. emp., 10 ; £ emp., 1.
Master  Builders,  8 ; Buildings  erected,  9 ; value,  $18,tlOO; value of
materials used, $9,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of work done,
$3,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw Milla, 8 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 800,000 ; value,
$16,000; cap., $15,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Farms, 176 ; acres 17,500 ; value, including Buildings, $798,000 ; acres
of land unproved, 7,860 ; pel"80DS emp., 308.
&98	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(JSM.
TsWl[ts11BT.	lfmDLKIU Co.

Unimproved Land, acres, 9,640. Unimprovable Land, acres, 720. Woodland, acres, 2,540 ; value, $152,400.
Indian Corn, acres, 379; bush., 13,405 ; value,  91135.
Bye, acres, 110; buab., 1,218;  value, $9,456.
Barley, acres, 8; bash., 103; value, $206.
Oats, acres, 1«; bush., 2,542 ; value, $2,542.
Potatoee, acres, 309 ; bush., 27,665; value, 920,750.
Oniona, acrea, i; baah., 200 ; value, $400. Omota, acres, 8 ; buab., 1,000 ; value, $600. Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $500.
Winter Squash, acres, 8i  value, $400.
Beeta and other eeculent vegetables, acres, 6 ; baab., 2,000 ; value,
$1,000.
Cranberries, acres, 180 ; bu.sh., 75; value, $2!6.
English   Mowing,   acres,  2,298;  tons  of   Encliah  hay,   2,115; value,
$63,450.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,982; tons of wet meadow ornrale
bay, 1,600;  value, $19,200.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 24,983 ; value of apples, $12,060; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 688; value of pears, $200; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 600 ; value of fruit,  $400 ; value of Nuta or Berriea cultivated or gathered for market,  $1,000.
Sheep, 16 ; value, $96.
Horses, 242 ; value, $27,200 ; Oxen overfour years old, 201; Steers under four years old, 80; value of oxen and steers, $17,290 ; Milch Cows, 743 ; Heifers, 79 ; value of cows and heifers, $83,000 ; gallons of Milk sold, 43,840 ; value, $8,768; lbs. of Butter sold, 19,940 ; value, $7,477 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 5,000 ; value, $500.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 118,985 ; value, $11,898.	· Pork, dressed, lbs., 102,687; value, $17,114.
Veal, lbe., 58,940; value, $6,742.	,
Swine,   198 ;  value, $2,020;  value of  Poultry  sold, $1,472; value  of
Eggs sold, $1,290; lbs. of Honey, 1,000 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 100. Straw Braid m'd in the family, yards, 400,000 ; value, $8,000.


TEWKSBURY.
Ladies' Silk Scarfs, manafactoriea of, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; dozens of scar& m'd, 60 ; value, $600 ; cap., $800; m. emp., 1.
1866.]	INDOSTBY  OF KASS.lCHUSETI'S• .	899
limDLUU <Jo.	

Jlleckarohh Shope, 4-; Yalue of atock med, $600 i Ta1ae of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $800 ;buda emp., 4.
Cabinet Manu&ctoriea, 2 ; value of atock med, $9,000; value of chain and cabinet ware m'd, $82,000 ; eap., $18,000; hand, emp., 28.
Tuming wl Currying Eatabliabroeota, 1;value of atock ued, $10,000; mdea tanned, 5,000 ; hidea tanned and carried, 4,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $18,000; cap., $10,000 ;haDda emp., 6.
Saw Milla, 2 ; fee& of Lumber  prepared  for market,  200,000 ; value,
$8,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; banda emp., 2.
Charcoal m'd, buah., 500;  value., $100.
F 1;aeree, 18,000; valae, including BwJdinga, $578,946 ; 8Cl"el
improved, 8,000 ; penona mnp., 250.
Unimproved Land, acrea, 10,000. Unimprovable Land, aerea, 1,000. Woodland, aeree, 900 ; value, $50,000.
Indian Com, acrea, 288f ; bOlh., 7,614; value, $15,228.
Wheat, acres, 1; buah., 17 ; value, $40. R,e,acrea, 124:; bu.eh., 1,182 ; value, $2,864. Barley, acrea, 17 ; buah., 845 ; value,·$550. Buckwheat, aerea, 4 ; buah., 26 ; value, $40. Oats, acrea, 86; buah., 1,474; value, $1,474.
Potat.oea, acrea, 194 ; bUBh., 16,810 ; value, $13,200.
Turnips cultivated u fteld crop, acres, 24 ; bub., 8,805 ; value, $850.
Ooiona, acres, 8 ; buah., 800 ; value, $700. Carrots, acres, 2 ; bUlh., 500; value, $200. Cu>bege, acrea, 29 ; value, $5,285.
W-mter Squaah, acrea, 10; value, $600.
Beets and other 88Clllent vegetablea, acrea, 5 ;bub., 700 ; value, $460.
Hope, acrea, 2 ; Iba., 400 ; value, $170.
Cranberriea, acrea, 6 ; bmh., 16 ; value, $60.
Eogliah Mowing, acrea, 1,891 ; tom English hay, 1,818; value, $89,540.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 766; tona of wet meadow or swale
hay, 549 ; va1ue, $8,285.
Apple-treea cultivated for their fruit, 9,629; value of applea, $2,756; Pear-treea cultivated for their  fruit,  619 ; value  of  pean,  $280; all other treea cultivated for their fruit, 450 ; value of fruit, $160; value of  Nuts or Berriea cultivated or gathered for market, $800.
Sheep, 27; grosa value, $150 ; Iba. of Wool produced, 80 ; value, $60. HOl'888, 187 ; va1ue, $14,205; Oxen over four yean old, 87 ; Steen under wur yean old, 2 ; value of oxen and steera, $6,600 ; Milch
C>WB, 449 ; Heifers,  104 ; value of con IDll heifers,  $18,528;
STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
TOWNSltND.	·MtDDLESEX  Oo.

value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (5 Bulls,) $180 ; gallons of Milk sold, 57,550 ; value, $10,859 ; Iba. of Butter aold, 5,660 ; value, $2,264.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 64,279; value, $5,785. Pork, dressed, lbs., 51,974 ; value, $9,855. · Mutton, dressed, lbs., 200; value, $20.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 18,000 ; value,  $1,800.
Swine, 122; value, $1,800; value of Poultry aold, $625 ; value of Eggs aold, $750 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 5 ; value, $8 ; value ot uneuumerated articles of Farm Produce, $8,000.
Moccasins,  establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of stock used,  $200 ;
pairs of  moccasins m'd, 100 ; value, $j()0; hands emp.,   8.


TOWNSEND.
Musical Instrument Manufactorics, 2 ; value of stock used, $300 ; Serapbines m'd, 15; value, $780 ; cap., $380;  hands emp.,  2.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of bookbinding don\', $8,000 ; cap., $8,000; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 1.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 24 ;·value, $920 ; value of stock used, $600; cap., $300 ; bands emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments  for m.  of, 2 ; value  of repairing  done, $800 ;  cap.,
$850 ; bands emp., 2.	·
Master Buildel"B, 2; Buildings erected, 2; value, $1,200 ; value of materials used, $700 ; hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $550 ; value of work done,
$8,100 ; cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactorie9, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of tin ware m'd, $200 ; cap., $400;  bands emp., 1.
Tanning antl .Currying Establishments, 2; value of stock used, $7,300 ; HidllB tanned, 2,200 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $14,250; cap., $6,100 ; hands emp., 5.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 89 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 78; gross value  of  stock  used,  $375 ; value of  boots and  shoes m'd,
$594 ; cap., $288 ; m. emp., 8.
Palm Leaf Hats m'd, dozen, 1,482 ; value, $2,225.15.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 80,000 ; value, $640 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.



....	Digitized   by Google
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	401
MIDDLK8EX   Co.	TOWM8KND,

Pail and Tub Manufact.ories, 1; value of stock used, $',850 ; pails and tubs m'd, 50,000 ; value, $10,000; cap., $6,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Casks, establishments for m. of'; 112 ; value  of stock used, $64,295 ;
casks m'd, 810,830 ; value, $96,221; cap., $81,087 ; bands emp., 198,
$boob m'd, 50,000 ; value, $5,000.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of';  2 ; value  of  stock used, $75; coffins made, 42 ; value, $210 ; cap., $250 ; hands emp.,  2.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of wooden boxes made, $600 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 12 ; feet of  Lumber prepared  for market, 2,657,000 ; value,
$25,480; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 1,540,000 ; value, $6,980 ; cap., $19,000 ; hands emp., 26.
Firewood and Bark prepared   for  market,  cords, 750 ;  value, $2,815 ;
cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 4.
Farms, 174 ; acres, 10,407 ; value, including Buildings, $217,240; acres improved, 8,756 ; persons emp., 256.
Unimproved Land, acre3, 8,708. Unimprovable Land, acres, 4,077. Woodhuid, acres, 8,115 ; value, $125,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 254; bush., 6,748 ; value, $10,122.
Wheat, acres, 51; bush., 52 ; value, $180. Rye, acres, 48 ; bush., 838; value, $507. Barley, acres, 29; bush., 410 ; value, $615.
Buckwheat,  acres,  161; bush.,  162 ; value, $226.
Oats, acres, 63; bush., 881; value, $528.
Millet, acres, 2 ; value, $20.
Potatoes, acres, 165; bush., 18,121 ; value,  $4,878.
Onions, acres, l ; bush., 100 ; value, $250. Carrots, acres, l ; bush., 167 ; value, $53. Cabbage, acres,!; value, $25.
Garden  Seeds, acres,!; value, $100.	•
Market  Gardening, acres, 6 ; value  of  products, $1,200.
Hop.  acres, 2 ; lbs., 916 ; value, $179.
Cranberries, acres, 2 ; bush., 25; value, $100.
English   Mowing,   acres,   1,211 ; tons   of  English   hay,   1,092; value,
$21,840.
Wet Meado,v or Swale mown, acres, 659 ; to of wet meadow or swale hay, 532 ; value, $5,600.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 9,182 ; value  of apples, $4,768 ;
Pear-trees cultivated  for their fruit,  282 ; value  of  pears,  $102 ;  all
61
402	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
TffiGSBOBOUOB,	MIDDLESEX ·Co.

other trees cultivated fur their tiuit, 701; value of tiuit, $474; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,   $1,2.
Sheep, U6; value, $455 ;  lbs. of Wool produced, 528 ; value, $275.
Horses, 270 ; value, $19,006 ; Oxen over four years old, 96 ; Steers under four years old, 55 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,095; Milch Cows, 481 ; Heifers, 108; value of cows and heifers, $19,7U ; gallons of Milk sold, 12,886; value, $2,628; lbe, of Butter sold, 10,240 ; value, $8,125; lbe. of  Cheese, 1,148; value, $145.
Beef, dressed, lbe., 59,609 ; value, $6,105. Pork, dressed, lbe., 71,075 ; value, $10,661. Mutton, dressed, lbe., 5l>O ; value, $59, Veal, dressed, lbe., 28,100; value, $2,148.
Swine, 234; value, $8,887 ; value of Poultry sold, $680 ; value of Eggs sold, $944 ; lbe. of Honey, 815; value, $128; lbe. of Beeswax, 28; value, $18.


TYNGSBOROUGH.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of work done,
$900 ; cap., $850 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 20 ; gross value of stock used, $150 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $290; cap., $100;  m. emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $4,000 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 5; f. emp., 1. Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for  market,  605,000 ; value,
$9,075;  value of  Ship Timber and Piling, $2,100.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,740 ; value, $21,274 ;
cap., $1,048; hands emp., 6.
Farms, 98 ; acres, 9,748 ; value, including Buildingta, $2!8,879 ; acres
improved, 6,605;  persons emp., 101.
Unimproved Land, acres, 82. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 55. Woodland, acres, 8,148; value,  $78,575.
Indian Com, acres, 100 ; bush., 8,100 ; value, $4,092.
Wheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 26 ; value, $48. Rye, acres, 48; bush., 440; value, $660. Barley, acres, 8; bush., 96 ; value, $96.
Buckwheat, acres, Sf ; bush., 48\ ; value, $60.
Oats, acres, 64\ ; bush., 1,407 ; value, $1,025.50.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS .	408
MIDDLESEX  Co.	W.U.TBAX.

Millet, acres, i; bush., 2 ; value, $8.
Potatoe.,, acres, 7lf ; bush., 8,886;  value,   $4,855.
Turnips cultivated aa a field crop, acres, q; bush.,968 ; value, $279.
Onions, acres, t ; bush., 120 ; value, $108. Carrota, acres, l ; bush., 19 ; value, $7.60. Cabbage, acres, lf ; value, $199.
Beets and other eaculent vegetables, acres, l ; bush., 79 ; value, $41.
Cranberries, acres, 161; bush., 12!; value, $41.
English Mowing, acres, 972 ; tons of English bay, 710 ;value, $14,200.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 605 ; tone of wet meadow or swale hay, 549 ; value, $4,856.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,547 ; value of apples,  $2,107 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 72 ; value of  pears,  $26.50.
Sheep, 163;  value; $652; lbs. of  Wool produced, 618; value, $457.
Horaea, 91 ; value, $6,480; Oxen over  four years old, 47 ; Steers under  fi>ur years old, 88 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,700 ; Milch Cows, 288; Heifers, 114; value of  cows  and  heifers,  $8,918 ;  gallons  of Milk  aold,  9,856;  value,  $2,037 ; Iba.  of  Butter  aold,  7,698;  value,
$8,244.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 52,265 ; value, $4,721. Pork, dressed, lbs., 86,589 ; value, $6,862. Mutton, dressed, Iba., 1,842 ; value, $285. Veal, dressed, Iba., 2,817 ; value, $176.
Swine, 77 ; value, $770 ; value of Poultry aold, $525 ; value of Eggs aold, $1,030 ; lbs. of Honey, 212 ; value, $86 ; Iba. of Beeswax, 10; value,  $8.


WALTHAM.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 84,652 ; lbs. of cotton consumed, 790,800 ; gross value of stock used, $802,677 ; yards of Sheetings and Shirt­ ings m'd, 2,095,194 ; gross value, $1,278,839 ; cap., $600,000 ; m. emp., 150 ; £ emp., 250.
Cotton Goods, establiahmenta for bleaching or coloring, and not con­ nected with calico or mousseline de laine establisbmenta, 1; yards of goods bleached or colored, 12,000,000 ; cap., $100,0QO ; hands emp., 95.
Hosiery, establishments fo' r m. of, 1; value of  stock  used, $3,500 ; value of woollen hose m'd, $4,500; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 25.
404	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
                                                           llmDLESEX  Co.

Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, fumaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $55,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 700 ; value, $84,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 40.
Mechanics'   Tools  m'd   and   not   elsewhere   enumerated,   gross value,
$6,500 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; cap., $8,500 ; hands emp., 7. Hoop Skirts m'd, 1,800 ; value, $2,500 ; value of stock uaed, $1,700;
cap., $800 ; f.emp., 2.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock  consumed,  800 ; value,  $12,000 ; tons of paper m'd, 250 ; value, $20,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 6. Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 2 ;value of stock uaed, $2,000; newspapers printed, (Waltham Free  Press,  Waltham  Sentinel,)  2 ; iBBued  weekly ; gross value, $4,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; value of all other
printing done, $2,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 1.
Bookbinderies,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $700 ; value  of bookbinding
done, $1,500 ; cap., $750; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$8,800 ; daguerreotypes  and photographs  taken,  20,000 ; value,
$6,800 ; cap., $1,800 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 1.
Chronometers, Watches, Gold and Silver Ware, and Jewelry, establish­ ments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $165,491; watch movements m'd,  44,682 ; watch  cases  m'd,  14,485 ; value,  $1,016,684 ;  cap.,
$750,000 ; m. emp., 400 ; £ emp., 200.
Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000; lbs. of confectionery made, 8,000 ; value, $2,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1.
Clothing,  establishments  for  m.  of,  2 ; value  of stock used,  $68,000 ;
value  of  clothing  m'd,  $82,000 ; cap., $4,500 ; m. emp.,  5 ;  f.
emp., 208.
Marble and other kinda of Stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $925 ; value of Monuments and Gravestones m'd, $3,500; cap., $650 ; hands emp., 4.
Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 10 ; value, $150,000; value of . materials used, $100,000 ; hands emp., 50.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of work done,
$8,800 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $900 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,800 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Boots, p*8 of all kinds  m'd,  1,350 ; Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinda m'd, 8,800 ; gross value of stock used, $9,000 ; value of boots and shoes . m'd,  $15,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 17 ; £ emp.,  5.
Planing Mills, 1; value of  work done, $1,500.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETIS. 	405
MmnLESU: Co.	WA.LTILUL

Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of st.ock used, $8,248 ; value of wooden boxes made, $5,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of st.ock used, $6,158 ; value of
gas m'd, $8,020.89; cap., $40,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 2 ; tons of ice pre­ served, 5,000 ; value, $2,500 ; cap., $5,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Bakeries,   2;  value  of   st.ock  used,  $12,200 ; value  of   Bread  m'd,
$19,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Saw Mills, 1; feet of Lumber prepared  for market,  200,000 ; value,
$8,600; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 1.	·
Farms, 118; acres, 7,704 ; value, including Buildings, $682,100 ; acres improved, 4,085 ; persons emp., 250.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,552. Unimprovable Land, acres, 776. Woodland, acres, 1,291;  value, $66,100.
Indian Corn, acres, 208 ; bush., 8,545 ; value, $12,817.
Rye, acres, 69 ; bush., 1,446; value, $2,169. Barley, acres, 19; bush., 419 ; value, $419. Oats, acres, 5; bush., 175 ; value, $157.50.
Potatoes, acres, 128; bush., 11,275 ; value, $7,892.50.
Turnips cultivated  as a field crop, acres,  14 ; bush., 4,561;  value,
$1,824.40.
Onions, acres, 2; bush., 180 ; value, $270. Carrots, acres, 12; bush., 8,327; value, $1,880.80. Cabbage, value, $1,362.
W"mter Squash, acres, 6l ; value, $850.
Market  Gardening, acres, 96;  value of  products, $15,515.
Beets and other esculent  vegetables,  acres,  10 ; bush., 1,800 ; value,
$1,080.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,466 ; tons  of English  hay,  1,753; value,
$61,855.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 294 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 804 ; value, $4,560.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 17,451; value of apples, $1,635; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,126; value of  pears,  $1,007 ;  all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,560; value of fruit, $500; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $8,000.
Sheep, 20; value, $200 ; lbs. of wool produced, 150 ; valul'., $150. Hones,  430 ; value, $48,000; Oxen over four years old, 24;  value,
$1400 ; Milch Cows, 628 ; Heifen,, 75 ; value of  cows  and heifen,,
406	STATISTICS OF THE	(1866.
WATERTOWN.	MmDLll:8EX    Co.

$29,900 ; gallona or Milk sold, 282,580 ; value, $44,916; lbs. or Butter sold, 5,700 ; value, $2,804.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 100,000 ; value, $10,000. Pork, dressed, lbs., 157,000 ; value, $28,860. Veal, dressed, lbta., 8,500 ; value, $1,190.
Swine, 500 ; value, $5,000.
Wringing Machines m'd, value, $14,141 ; value of stock used, $8,808; cap.,  $40,000 ; m. emp.,  11.
Parmenter & Walker Chalk  Co. ; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value
m'd, $10,000 ; cap:, $4,500 ; m. emp., 4.


WATERTOWN.

Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 12 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 868,400 ;gross value of stock used, $500,000 ; yards of Ladies Cloth m'd, 807,000 ; value, $552,600 ; yards of Cassimcro m'd, 288,000 ; value, $283,000 ; yards  of Tweeds m'd, 56,600 ; value,
$55,600 ; yards of  Shirtings  m'd, 84,700 ;  value,  $97,408; cap.,
$250,000 ; m. emp., 110 ; £ emp., 119.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $140,000 ; tons of hollow ware  and  other  cast­ ings m'd,  1,750 ; value,  $240,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; m. emp.,   70.
Starch Manufactories, 1;·value or stock used, $12,600 ; lbs. of starch m'd, 180,000 ; value, $18,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 5.
Chemical Preparations, establishments  for m. of, 1-;  value of stock used,
$400 ; value of chemical preparations m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 250 ; value, $20,000 ;
tons of wrapping paper m'd, 100 ; value, $15,000 ; tons or all other kinds of paper m'd, 60 ; value, $15,000 ; cap., $60,000 ; m. emp., 20 ; £ emp., 15.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $151; value of bookbinding done, $440 ; cap., $875; m. emp., 1.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$500 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 1,200 ; value, $900 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd,
$1,600 ; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2•
.Railroad Cars, Coaches,  Chaises, Wagons,  Sleighs,  and  other   vehicles,
1865.J	INDUSTRY ON llASS.A.CHUSETTS.	(07
lw>DLB8ll  Co.	W.i.T&BrOWJr.

establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of vehicles, &c., m'd, $5,400 ; value of  stock used, $2,800 ; cap., $2,000 J  bands emp., f,,
Clothing, establiehments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock ueed, $8,500 ; value of clothipg m'd, $13,800; cap., $1,800 ; m. emp., f, ;£ emp., 12.
Master Builders, 6 ; Buildinga erected, 8 ; value, $7li,OOO ; value of
materials used,  $51,000 ; hande emp., 26.
Blacbmith  Shope, 5 ;value of stock med, $10,800 ; value of work done,
$21,800 ; cap., $6,400 ; hands emp., 18.
Cabinet Maoufactoriee, 1; value of stock used, $(,0() ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $1,200 ; cap., $1>00 ; hands emp., 1.
Tm Ware Manufaetoriee, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of tin ware m'd, $2,000;  eep., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dyeetuftil, eetabliehmente for m. of,  1; value  of
ltoclt used,  $80,000;  value  of  drugs,  medicinee,  and dyestuff's  m'd,
$100,000;  cap.,  U0,000;  m. emp., 12,
Griat Mill, 1; buab.  of  Grain ground, '4,797 ; value,  $80,.&70 ; cap.,
$2,(,00 ; hands emp., 2,
Boote, pairs of all kinda m'd, 240 ; Shoes, pairs  or' all kinda  m'd, 180  ;
groee  value  of stock  used,  $1,400 ; value  of boota  and ehoea m'd,
$2,400 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 4.
Sn Tobacco, and Cigars DJ'd, value, $650 ; value of stock used, $460 ; cap., $850 ; m. emp., 1.
Planing Mills and Establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 1; value of stock used, $2,000; value of eaahee, doors, and blinda m'd, $2,500; value of all other work done, $4,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Gas, eetabliehmente for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,286 ; value of gas m'd, $16,804 ; cap., $91,000 ; hande emp., f,,
Ice for market, establiehments for preservation of, 1; tone of ice pre­ served,  2,800 ; value,  $1,200 ; cap.,   $2,000;  m. emp., 8.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of Bread m'd, $8,600;
cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Farms, 47 ; acres, 1,632; value, including Buildioge, $608,800 ; acres improved, 1,198;  persons emp., 121.
Unimproved Land, acres, '3!.
WoocUand, acres, .&9 ; value, $1,225.
Indian Corn, acres, 60 ; bosh., 2,550 ; value, U,080. Rye, acres, 85 ; bueh., 730 ; value, $1,880.
All other Grain Crops, acres, 41 ; bush., 119 ; value, $155.
Potatoes, acree, .&7 ; bush., 5,800 ; value, $9,800.
Turnipe cultivated u a field crop, acree.12 ;baab., 2,(,80; value, $1,.&90.
408	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[18.
WA.TEBTOWN.	MmDLEszx   Co.

Onions, acres, 8 ; bush., 650 ; value, $1,190. Carrots, acres, 6; bush., 2,950 ; value, $1,620. Cabbage, acres, 24 ; value, $6,000.
Winter  Squash, acres, 19 ; value,  $7,600.
Market Gardening, acres, 88 ; value of products, $89,950. Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 27 ; value, $10,800.
English  Mowing,  acres,  848;  tons  of  English  bay,  1,084 ; value,
$89,024.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 26 ; tons of wet meadow or ewale bay, 29 ; value, $580.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 40 ; tons of salt bay, 58; value, $1,800.
Apple-trees cultivated for their frnit, 5,900 ; value of apples, $560 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,950 ; value of  pears,  $8,180; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 890 ; value of fruit, $250 ; value of  Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $1,600.
Horses, 294 ; (1 Pony, value, $200 ;) value of Hones, $51,780; Asses
and Mules,  1; value,  $50 ; Oxen over four years  old, 26 ; value,
$8,050 ; Milch Cows, 166 ; Heifers, 15 ; value of  cows  and heifers,
$16,590 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (8 Bulls,) $525; gallons of Milk sold, 12,925 ; value, $8,280 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 550 ; value, $198.
Beef, dreseed, lbs., 125,000 ; value, $15,625. Pork, dressed, lbs., 57,500 ; value, $9,775.
Mutton, dreeeed, lbs., 60,000 ; value, $9,000. Veal, dressed, lbs., 26,000 ; value, $8,640.
Swine, 181 ; value, $8,460 ; value of Egge sold, $640.
Shirt and Drawer Manufactories, 8 ; value of stock used, $129,200 ; dozens  of shirts and  drawers  m'd, 8,607 ; value, $170,690 ; cap.
$62,000 ; m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 179.
Wool Pulling Establishments, 1; lbs. of Wool pulled, 100,000 ; value,
$70,000 ; m. emp., 6.
Tripe, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of tripe prepared, $60,000 ; cap., $8,500 ; m. emp., 18.
Dyeing Goods, establishments for, 1 ; value of dyeing, $50,000 ; cap.,
$25,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; f. emp., 14.
United States Arsenal ; Field Gun Carriages m'd, 177 ; c.aissons, 45; Fortress Gun Carriages, iron, 148 ; Mortar Beds, 218 ; Platforms for mortars and siege carriages, 50 ; Guns and apparatus for mounting guns, 81; Sling Carts, 50 ; Infantry Accoutrements, sets complete, 25,000 ; rounds of Field Ammunition for smooth bore and rifle guns, 88,000 ; Musket Cartridges, 27,000,000 ; Musket Bullets, lbs., 298,000 ; Fuzes for mortars, 66,000 ; hands emp., 680.
1A65.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSE'ITS. 	409
MIDDLzsu   Co.	WA.TL.um.


WAYLAND.

Blacksmith Shops, 1; value or stock  med,  $275; value or work done,
$1,000 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., It.
Shoes,  pairs or  all kinds  m'd,  191,844 ;  groes  value  or stock  med,
•  $202,298; value or shoes m'd,  $282,760; cap., $19,850;   m. emp.,
182 ; £ emp., 29.
Straw Braid m'd and not made into bonnets or hats, value,  $2,000.
Breweries,  1; value  or stock  used,  $2,000;  bbls.  or Beer  m'd, 400;
value, $4,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood  prepared  tor  market,  cords,  686 ;  value,  $8,767 ; hands
emp., 25.
Farms, 149 ; acres, 9,152 ; value, including Buildings, $429,612; acres
improved, 8,935;  hands emp.,  172.
Unimproved  Land, acree, 218.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 5.
Woodland, acres, 2,890i ; value, $56,080.
Indian Com, acres, 242f ; bush., 7,448; value, $7,448.
Rye, acres, 7lf ; bush., 1,206; value, $1,507. Barley, acres, 84 ; bush., 612 ; value, $612. Oats, acres, 87 ; bush., 926; value, $607.
Beans, acres, 7 ; buab., 114; value, $282.
Peas, acres, It ; bush., 29;  value,  $56.
Potatoes, acres, 117 ; buah., 7,980 ; value, $7,108.
Canots, acree, If ; buab., '42; value, $249.
Cabbage, acres, 41 ; value, $898.
Tobacco, acree, f ;lbe., 505 ; value, $152.
Cranberries, acres, 5 ; buah., 20 ; value, $60.
Engliah Mowing, acres, 1,067 ; toD8 English hay, 907; value, $25,180.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 490; tona.of' wet meadow or swale hay,  418 ;  value, $4,140.
Apple-trees cultivated f'or their fruit, 14,979; value of' apples, $22,455 ; Pear-trees cultivated f'or their fruit,  970 ; value  or  pears,  $1,910 ; value of Strawberries, $285.
Saxony Sheep, of' different grades, 62 ; value, $610 ; lbe. or Wool pro­ duced, 865 ; value, $149.
Horses, 188 ; value, $18,865 ; Oxen over tour years old, 87 ; Steers under four years old, 42 ; value or oxen and steers, $8,285 ; Milch Cows, 501 ; Heifers, 74 ; value of cows and hei(el"B, $24,240 ; gallons or   Milk   sol  79,882;  value,   $13,590;   Butter,  lbe.,  9,579 ; value,
$8,790.
410	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
WaaT  C..umamoz.	:Mm»Lun  Co.

Beef, dressed, lbs., 87,088 ; value, $9,425. Pork, dressed, lbs., 60,849 ; value, $11,779. Veal, dressed, lbs., 17,805 ; value, $2,215.
Swine, 99 ; value, $2,216; value of Poultry aold, $1,420 ; value of Eggs aold, $1,754 ; Iba. of Honey, 66 ; value, $33; lbs. of Beeswax, 5 ; value, $8 ; value of Picklea, $2,000.	•


WEST CAMBRIDGE.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, eatabliahmenta for m. of, 1; gross
value  of stock  used,  $150 ; value  of machinery m'd, $600 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; bands emp., j.
Locomotives, Steam-Engines, and Boilers, eetabliahmenta for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; steam-engines built, 10; value, $3,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Pianofortes, establishments for m. of detached  parts of, 2 ; value m'd,
$8,000 ; value of stock used, $800 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 5.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$3,750 ;  daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,   12,000 ; value,
$7,000 ; cap., $900 ; m. emp., 1.
Looking-Glasses and Picture Frames, manufactoriee of, 1; value of stock  used,  $3,500;  articles m'd, 24,000 ; value,  $10,000; cap.,
$10,000; hands emp., 8,
Chronometers, Watches, Gold and Silver Ware, and Jewelry, establish­ ments for m. of, 1; value of stock med, $80 ; Balance Wheels for watches m'd, 48,000 ; value, $7,680 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 8.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; number of each m'd, 8; value, $400 ; value of ,tock used, $200; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehiclee, establishments for m. of, 8 ; number m'd, 8 sleighs, 5 Cann wagons ; value,  $700 ; value  of  stock  used,  $300;  cap.,  $800 ; hands  emp.,   5,
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock  usen,  $900 ; value  of   clothing  m'd,  $1,800  ; cap.,  $200;  m.  emp.,  2 ; f. emp., 3.
Master Builders, 8; Buildings erected, 8; value, $13,200 ; value of materials used, $7,800 ; hands emp., 14.
Blackamith Shope, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,600 ; value of work done,
$7,500 ; cap., $1,900 ; hands emp., 6.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	411
MIDDLESEX Co.	WEST  CAMBRIDGL

Tin Ware Manuf'actories, 1; value of stock 1186d, $1,200 ; value of tin ware  m'd, $2,000;  cap., $1,500 ; bands  emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 550 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 225 ;
groes  value  of  stock  used,   $2,500;  value  of  boots  and  shoes m'd,
$4,500 ; cap., $700 ; m. emp., 4.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock uaed, $4,500 ; value of
gas m'd, $8,000; cap., $60,000; bands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 2 ; tons of ice pre­ served, 65,000; value, $82,500 ; cap., $80,000 ; bands emp., 60.
Pickles and Preserves, establishments for m. of, 8; value of stock used,
$2,500 ; value  of pickles and preserves m'd,  $4,000 ; cap., $500 ;
bands emp., 8.
Bakeries,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $16,000 ; value  of  Bread m'd,
$24,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 5.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 500 ; value, $8,500; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 6.
Farms, 67; acres, 2,982; value, including Buildings, $1,782,058 ; acres improved, 1,748 ; persons emp., 300.
Unimproved Land, acres, 984. Unimprovable Land, acres, 205. Woodland, acres, 278; value, $21,835.
Indian Corn, acres, 65 ; bush., 1,800; valne, $2,800. Rye, acres, 34 ; bush., 680 ; value, $1,860.
Potatoes, acres, 24; bush., 600 ; value, $1,500.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 15; bush., 815; value, $8,250.
Onions, acres, 7; bush., 920; value, $1,875. C...bbage, acres, 12 ; value, $1,800.
Winter Squash, acres, 17; value, $8,175.
Market Gardening, acres, 589 ; value of products, $176,700.
English Mowing, acres, 614 ; tons of English hay, 715; value, $21,450.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 115; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 2'7 ; value, $8,700.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,850 ; value of apples, $.583 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,875; value of pears, $950; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, (Straw­ berries,) $5,880.
Hol'l!ell,  844;  value, $87,710;   Oxen  over   four  years  old,  6 ; value,
$550 ; Milch Cows, 163 ; value, $8,825 ; gallons of Milk sold, 17,460;  value, $4,865; lbs. of  Butter sold, 820; value, $106.80.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 75,900;  value,  $12,650.
412	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
WESTl'OBD.	lfu>DLE8ll   Co.

Veal, dressed, lbe., 12,000 ; value, $2,000.
Swine, 258 ; value, $4,450 ; value of Eggs sold, $450.
Mill, Circular, and Wood Saws, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock . ueed, $44,000 ; value of articles m'd, $99,882 ; cap., $80,000 ; bands emp., 84.
Machine Knives for splitting Leather, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $825 ; value of articles m'd, $4,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 2,
Tools for cutting Ice, establishments  for m. of,  1; value  of  stock   used,
$2,000 ; value of articles m'd, $4,000 ; cap., $2,500; hands emp., 1. Flannel Cloths and other Woollen Goods, establishments for printing, 1;
yards printed, 1,885,524 ; value of printing done, $66,568 ; hands emp., 40.


WESTFORD.

Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 1; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 80,000 ; groes value of stock used, $82,000 ; lbs. of Woollen Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 75,000 ; value, $48,750 ; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 8.
American Worsteda, establishments for m. of, 2 ; lbe, of stock used, 207,000 ;  lbs.  of worsteds  m'd,  118,400 ; value,  $214,.&60 ; cap.,
$89,800 ; m. emp., 20; f. emp., 58.
Shoddy, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $12,000 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 40,000 ; value, $16,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 2, Worated Dress Braids, worsted Embroidery Braids, and Elastic Cords and Webs, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used,  $8,778 ; lbs. of
dress braids m'd, 4,620 ; valtte, $9,240 ; cap., $700; £ emp., 2.
Rolling, Slitting, and Nail Mills, 1; machines for m. of nails, 82 ; tons of nails m'd, 80\ ; value, $18,800 ; cap., $17,500 ; hands emp., 25. Cott.on, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for m. of, 1;
groes   value   of  stock   used,   $70,000 ;  value   of   machinery   m'd,
$106,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; hands emp., 40.
Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 8 ; value, $2,750 ; value of materials used, $1,400 ; hands emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,550 ; value of work done,
$8,700 ; cap., $550 ; hands emp., 5.
Boots, pairs of  ali kinds m'd, 50 ; Shoes, pairs  of  all kinds m'd,  1,025   ;
groes value of stock used, $900 ; cap., $1,825 ; m. emp., 2.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value of stock
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	418
'MIDDLESltX   Co,	WESTPOBD,

llSed, $60 ; straw bonnets m'd, 100 ; value, $82.50; straw hats m'd, 200; value, $165.
Stone Quarries, 8 ; value of building stone quarried and prepared for market, $5,582 ; cap., $3,475 ; bands emp., 16.
Saw  Mills,  1; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 400,000 ; value,
$5,000; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared formarket, 14,000;  value, $420; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood prepared for market, oords, 1,924; value, $6,078; hands emp., 21.
Farms, 284 ; acres, 18,747 ; value, including Buildings, $658,289; acres improved, 7,278; persons emp., 828.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,268. Unimprovable I:.and, acres, 194. WoodJand, acres, 7,884; value, $128,844.
Indian Corn, acres, 844 ; bush., 7,798 ; value, $10,188. Wheat, acres, f ; bush., 7 ; value, $14.
Rye, acres, 54 ; bush., 517; value, $768. Barley, acres, 48 ; bush., 598 ; value, $764.
Buckwheat, acres,  ; bush., 8 ; value, $2.50.
Oats, acres, 91 ; bush., 1,926 ; value, $1,108.
Potatoes, acres, 187; bush., 16,147; value, $10,873.
Turnips cultivated 88 a field crop, acres, 1; bush., 856 ; value, $80. Onions, bush., 30 ; value, $70.
Carrots, bush., 98; value, $54. Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $107. Winter Squash, value, S9.
Beets and other eeeulent vegetables, bush., 21; value, $10.50. Cranberries, acres, 7 ; bush., 68 ; value, $169.
English   Mowing,   acres,  1,876 ; tolllt  of   English  hay,  1,817  ; value,
$81,987.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 918; toDB of wet meadow or swale hay, 807 ; value, $7,270.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 21,085; value of apples, $3,851; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 598 ; value of pears, $111; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 665 ; value of fruit, $295 ;Yalue of  Nuts or Bernes cultivated or gathered for market, $507.
Sheep, 48 ; value, $851; lbs. of Wool produced, 147 ; value, $108.
Horses, 211 ; value, $15,320 ; Oxen over four years old, 141; Steers under four years old, 43; value of oxen and steers, $13,430 ; Milch Cows, 597 ; Heifers, 118; value of cows and heifers, $27,072 ; value of Neat  Stock  not  embraced above, $298; gallons of Milk sold,
414	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
WuTON.	MIDDLElll Co.

72,066 ; value, $11,906; lbe. of Butter eold, 11,048 ; value, $4,390; lbe. of Cheese, 380 ; value, $68.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 41,286 ; value, $3,098. Pork, dressed, lbs., 69,187; value, $12,207. Mutton, dres.ffld, lbs., 460 ; value, $98.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,572 ; value, $868.
Swine, 288 ; value, $7,966 ; value of Poultry eold, $536 ; value of Eggs sold, $728 ; lbs. of Honey, 202 ; value, $66 ; lbe. of Beeswax, 24; value, $19.


WESTON.

Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $6,720 ; value of machinery m'd, $20,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 17.
Mechanics' Tools m'd and not elsewhere enumerated, gross value, $1,450; value of  stock used, $600 ; cap., $500; hands emp., 1.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, (and repairing,) 50 ; :value, $5,000; value of stock used, $3,000; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,150; value of work done,
$2,150; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 4.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 295 ; Shoes, pairs of all  kinds m'd, 200 ;
gross  value  of stock  used,  $910 ;  value  of  boots  and  shoes     m'd,
$1,675;  cap., $500 ; m. emp., 2.
Stone and Earthen Ware, establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of stock
used, $1,000 ; value of stone and earthen ware m'd, $3,500 ; cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,477;  value, $7,623.
Farms, 181 ; acres, 9,622; value, including Buildings, $523,050 ; acres improved, 5,782 ; persons emp., 230.
Unimproved Land, acres, 961. Unimprovable Land, acres, 347. Woodland, acres, 2,582 ; value, $118,310.
Indian Com, acres, 261}; bush., 7,406 ; value, $10i981. Rye, acres, 45 ; bush., 555; value, $841.
Barley, acres, 48!; bush., 679 ; value, $1,015. Oats, acres, 13 ; bush., 385 ; value, $335.
Potatoes, acres, 112}; bush., 10,923 ; value, $10,330.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, a<res, 9i ; bush., 1,410 ; value, $933.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	415
MIDDLESll  Co.	WD.11m6TOK,

Carrots, acree, 8;	1,Ml ; value,  $643.
Cabbage,  acres,  5; value,  $885. Winter Squash, acrea, 4 ; value, $655.
Market Gardening, acres, 71f ; value of produeta, $8,660.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acree, 8 ; buab., 686 ; value, $295. Cranberries, acres, 14 ; bush., 84 ; value, $170.
English   Mowing,   acres,   1,756;  tons  of  English   ba1,  1,611;  value,
$47,205.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acree, 757l; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 7211; value, $12,251.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 16,812; value of apples, $8,918; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  1,859 ; value  of  pears, $746 ;  all other trees cultivated A>r their fruit, (Cherry, 648, Peach, 242,) 890; value of fruit, (cheniea, $18, peaches, $74,) $92; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $6,910.
Sheep, 28; valoe, $179 ; Iba. of Wool produced, 216; value, $146.
Horses, 208 ; value, $20,880 ; Aaees and Mules, 1; value, $150 ; ODD over four years old, 80; Steers under bJr years old, 18 ; value of oxen and steen, $6,188; Milch Cows, 584; Heifers, 78; value of Cows and Heifers, $80,865 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above,  (7  Bulla,)  $210 ; gallona  of . Milk  sold,  119,876 ; value,
$24,574 ; Iba. of Batter sold, 10,480 ; value, $4,692; Iba. ot Cheese, 100 ; value,  $10.
Bee( dreaaed, Iba., 91,215; value,  $9,507. Pork, dressed, Iba., 57,170;  value, $9,545. Vea1, dressed, Iba., 22,169 ; value, $8,282.
Swine, 14.5 ; value, $2,458; value of Poultry aold, $1,691; value of Eggs sold, $8,699; Iba. of Honey, 7'; value, $86 ; value of 11D811U· merated articlel of Farm Produce, (20 acres Pickles, value, $2,850 ; liacres Sage, value, $850 ; Grapes, $800,) $8,500.
Butter  and  Cheese  Tryers,  value  m'd, $2,000; value  of stock  used,
$600 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 2.
Evergreeus prepared for trimming Churches, &c., value, $125.


WILMINGTON.
Black.smith Shops; 1; value of stock used, $400 ; value of work done,
$1,100 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 805,000 ; value,
$5,185 ; hands emp.. 8.
416	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
WILMINGTON.	MmDLESEX   Co.

Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,099 ; value, $9,440 ; hands emp., 14.
Farms, 101;  acres, 7,171;  value, including Buildioga, $266,288; acres
improved, 8,840 ; penons emp., 94. Unimproved Land, acres, 3,317.
Unimprovable  Land, acres,  5.
Woodland,  acres, 630 ; value,  $81,428.
Indian Com, acres, 115; bush., 1,988 ; value, $3,479. Rye, acres, 28; bush., 198 ; value, $297.
Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 58 ; value, $100. Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 6 ; value, $7.50. Oats, acree, 5 ; bush., 36 ; value, UQ.
All other Grain Crops, bush., 152; value, $500. Potatoes, acres, 91 ; bush., 4,784 ; value, $4,784.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, bush., 406 ; value, $203. Beets and all other esculent vegetables, bush., 28 ; value, $28. Hops, acres, 5 ; lbs., 1,550 ; value, $762.
Cranberries, bush.,  13 ; value, $65.
English Mowing, acres, 690 ;.tons of English hay, 400 ; value, $12,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 672 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 370 ; value, $3,700.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,739 ; value of apples, $1,000 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 242 ; value of pears, $30 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $400.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 8; value, $72 ; lbs. of Wool pro­ duced, 40 ; value, $30.
Horaea, 113 ; value, $9,055 ; Oxen over four years old, 23 ; Steers under four years old, 2; value of oxen and steers, $2,195 ; Milch Cows, 220 ; Heifers, 12 ; value of cows and heifers, $10,026 ; value of Neat Stock not  embraced above,  (Yearlinga and Two-years old,)
$725 ; gallons of  Milk sold, 3,650 ; value, $876 ; Iba. of  Butter  sold,
5,564 ; value, $2,782.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 2,046,950 ; value, $196,856. Pork, dressed, lbs., 88,421; value,  $6,915.78. Veal, dressed, Iba., 13,050 ; value,  $1,631.
Swine, 65 ; value, $1,073 ; value of Poultry sold, $800 ; value of Eggs
sold, $412 ; Iba. of Honey, 140 ; value, $70 ; value of unenumerated articles of  Farm Produce, $392.
Flower Seeds, value, $25.
1865,]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	417
JrlIDDLB&Ex   Co.	WINCHESTER,


WINCHESTER.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery,	tablishments for m. of, 1; gross
value of stook used, $5,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $15,000 ; cap.,
$20,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Chemical Preparations, establishments  for m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$1,500 ; value of chemical preparations m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Pianofortes, establishments for m. of detached parts of, 3 ; value m'd,
$25,000 ;  value of  stock used,  $5,500 ; cap., $28,000 ;  hands
emp., 30.	·
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of  tin
ware m'd, $150 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 8 ; value of stock uaed, $6,000 ; Hides tanned, 5,000 ; hides tanned and curried, 19,275 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $98,475 ; cap.,$41,000 ; hands emp.,86. Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 8,000 ; gross value of stock used, $2,('00 ; value  of boots and  shoes  m'd,  $3,500 ; cap., $600 ; m. emp., 8 ; £
emp., 3.
Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 855,259 ; value,
$5,450 ; Veneers cut and sawed, feet, 1,829,595 ; value, $36,592 ; cap., $31,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Farms, 88 ; acres, 1,900 ; value, including Buildings, $254,000 ;_acres improved, 380 ; persons emp., 150.
Unimproved Land, acres, 351. Unimprovable Land, acres, 120. Woodland, acres, 558 ; value, $49,990.
Indian Corn, acres, 50 ; bu.sh., 2,000 ; value, $4,000.
Rye, acres, 5 ; bu.sh., 200 ; value, $450. Potatoes, RCres, 80 ; bnsh., 3,300 ; value, $3,300.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 20 ; bush., 6,000 ; value, $3,000. Onions, acres, 3 ; bu.sh., 1,000 ; value, $1,200.
Carrots, acres, 3 ; bush., 700 ; value, $280. Cabbage, acres, 20 ; value, $7,500.
Winter Squash, acres, 20; value, $2,000.
Market Gardening, acres, 120 ; value of products, $25,000.
Beets and other esculent vegetables,  acres, 60 ; bush., 20,000 i  value,
$15,000.
English Mowing, acres, 691 ; tons of English hay, 700 ; value, $20,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 118 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 200 ; value, $3,000.
68
418	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
WOBUIL'(.	:Mu>DLUBX Co.

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,935 ; value of apples, $58,600 ; Pear-trees qJltivated for their  fruit, 1,063 ; value of pears,  $300 ;
value of  Nuts or Berries cuiiivated or gathered fr market,  $1,000.
Horses, 152 ; value, $18,200 ; Oxen over four yea.rs old, 22 ; Steers under four years old, 4 ; value of oxen and steers, $3,950 ; Milch Cows, 135 ; Heifers, 16 ; value of cows and heifers, $5,800 ; gallons of Milk sold, 4,000 ; value, $1,280.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 160,000 ; value, $16,000. Pork, dressed, lbs., 5,000;  value, $750.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 1,000;  value, $100.
Swine, 125 ; value, $3,700; value of Eggs sold, $400; lbs. of Honey, 100 ; value, $30.
Wool Wadding and Felting, establishments for m. of, 1; lbs. of wool used,  24,000 ;  value,  $18,000 ;  wadding  m'd,  lbs.,  5,000 ; value,
$4,000 ; felting m'd, lbs., 19,000 ; value, $14,000 ; cap., $20,000 ;
hands emp., 8.


WOBURN.

Hollow Ware and C011tings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, l ; value of stock used, $8,250 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings "Dl'd, 275;  value, $27,500 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp.,   13.
,Mechanics' Tools m'd and not elsewhere enumarated, gross value, $3,266;
value of stock used, $700 ; cap., $800; hands emp., 8.
Chemical Preparations, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$52,420 ; value of chemical preparations m'd, $77,575 ; cap.,$50,000; hands emp., 14.
Printing   and   Newspaper   Establishments,   1;   value   of   stock  used,
$1,313 ; newspapers printed, (Middlesex Journal,) 1; issued weekly ;
gross value, $2,600 ; cap., $1,000 ; value of all other  printing done,
$2,200 ; cap., $900 ; m. emp., 8.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$1,800 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 8,000 ; value, $4,000; cap., $1,800 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 1.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; harnesses m'd, ..58; value, $2,200 ; value of stock used, $750; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 8; wagons m'd, 20 ; value, $2,000 ; value of stock used, $600 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	419
lfmDLBSEX   Co.	WOBURN,

Omfectionery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of st.ock used, $200 ; lbs. of confectioi,.ery made, 1,000; value, $280 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp., l·
Clothing, establishments for in. of, 4; value of stock used, $16,100 ;
value of clothing m'd, $82,000 ; cap., $6,000 ;m. emp., 8; f. emp.,28. Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,902 ; Monuments m'd, 25, Gravestones, 56 ; value,
$15,850; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 1,500; value, $6,000 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 10,000 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Blacksmith Shope, 5 ; value of stock used, $5,800 ; value of work done,
$10,100 ; cap., $1,700 ; hands emp., 8.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $600 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., J.
Glue Manufactories, and manufactories for preparation of Gums, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of glue and gums m'd, $35,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 9.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 21 ; value of stock used, $1,285,- 150; Hides tanned, 122,500; hides tanned and curried, 122,500 ;  value of Leather tanned and curried, $1,728,450 ; cap., $490,650 ; hands emp., 554.
Pat.ent and Enamelled Leather, wtablishmenta for m. of,  4 ; value  of stock  used,  $169,182;  value  of  patent  and  enamelled  leather m'd, ,1
$285,550 ; cap., $55,200 ; hands emp., 58.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 758; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 160,- 145; gross value of stock used, $180,472 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $254,190 ; cap.,$48,800 ; m. emp., 208 ; f. emp., 105.
Pumps, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $850 ; value of pumps m'd, $1,250; cap., $500 ; hands emp., l!,
Coffins and Burial Cues of all kinds, manufactories of,  1; value of stock used, $1,200 ; coffins made, 231; value, $8,000 ; cap., $850; hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of paper boxes made, $4,000 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 6.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of gas m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $15,000; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tone of ice pre­ served, 30,000;  value, $15,000;   cap.,$10,000 ; hands emp.,  10,
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $15,000; value of Bread m'd, $28,500;
cap., $3,000;  hands emp., 10.
420	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
WOBURN.	llIDDLlt8ll   Co.

Saw Mills, 1 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  DW"ket,  2-00,000; value,
$4,750 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 2.	.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,000 ; value, $10,000; . cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Farms,  82; acres, 8,753 ; value,  including  Buildings,   $422,280 ; acres
improved, 1,800 ; persons emp., 184. Unimproved  Land, acres, 1,870.
Woodland, acres, 579 ; value, $52,055.
Indian Com, acres, 123 ; bush., 4,975 ; value, $7,462. Rye, acres, 5 ; bush., 70 ; value, $140.
Potatoes, acres,  100 ; bush., 18,000 ; value, $18,000.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 22 ; bush., 4,205 ; value, $2,102. Onions, acres, 2 ; bush., 500 ; value, $1,000.
Carrots, acres, 2; bush., 600 ; value, $240. Cabbage, acres, 24 ; value, $8,000.
Winter Squash, acres, 15 ; value, $4,940. Garden Seeds, acres, 8 ; value, $2,065.
Market Gardening, acres, 108 ; value of products,  $19,200.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 8 ; bush., 795 ; value, $600 ; value  of   Garden  Seeds prepared  for  market, $2,065.
English  Mowing,  acres, 1,182 ; tons  of English  hay,  1,2!9 ; value,
$86,870.
Wet Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, i4o ; tons of wet meadow  orswale
._.	bay, 209;  value, $8,185.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,898 ; value of apples, $1,858 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 912 ; value of pears, $881.
Sheep, 8; value, $18 ; lbs. of wool produced, 9 ; value, $7.·
Horses, 474; value, $71,100 ; Oxen over four years old, 42 ; Steere  under four years old, 12; Yalue of oxen and steers, $4,900 ; Milch Cows, 411 ; Heifers, 20 ; value of cows and heifers, $21,150 ; gallons of Milk sold, 60,400 ; value, $12,800 ; lbs. of Butter sold,  4,000;  value,   $1,600.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 900,440; value, $99,048. Pork, !lressed, lbs., 109,950; value, $18,691. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 5,450 ; value, $654.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 15,405 ; value, $1,540.
Swine,  310;  value,  0$15,810;  value  of  Poultry  sold,  $400 ; value  of
Egge  sold, $1,500.
Shoe Stock, Soles, and Stiffenings, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of articles m'd, 849,400; value of stock used, $21,500 ; cap.,  $4,000 ;
.m. emp., 9 ; £ emp., 84.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	421
NANTUCJtBT  Co.	N.&.llTUCJUtT.

Rifles and Pebbling Machines, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $600; value of stock. m'd, $2,000; m. emp., 1.
Glass Ornaments,  establishments  for  m. of,  1; value  of stock  used,
$600 ; value m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 2.
Pocket Flasks, establishments for trimming and covering; 1 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of work done, $4,800 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 8.
Dressing Morocco, establishments for, 1; value of stock. used, $15,858;
Skins dressed, !2,225 ; value, $20,496; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 6.
Saws, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock. UBed, $6,800.; value of saws m'd, $14,700 ; cap., $7,00Q ; m. emp., 9.



N A NTU CKET COUN TY.

NANTUCKET.
Hosiery and Mittens, establishments for m. of,  1;1value  of stock. used, ·
$8,500 ; value of hosiery and mittens m'd, $6,000 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 200.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value ofl!tock used, $560; .., newspapers printed, (Inquirer and Mirror,) 1; iBBued weekly ; gross · value,  $1,465;  cap., $2,000 ; value of  all other printing done,   $600;
m. emp., ·4.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$750 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 10,500 ; value, $2,400;
cap., $12,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Saddles, Harneaees and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; harnesses m'd, 10 ; value, $472; value of stock. used, $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Boats, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of materials used, $242 ; boats built, 4 ; value, $742 ; cap., $600; hands emp., 8.
Sail Lofts, 1; Sails made of American fabric, 4 ; value of fabric, $649 ;
value of eai1s, $805 ; hands emp., 2.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock. used, $700 ; value of Monumental work, $1,200; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; lbs. of sperm candles made, 2,000 ;value, $8,000 ; hands cmp., 2.	•
•

422	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
NANTUCKET.	NANTUCKET  Co.

Soap, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,  $200 ; bbls. of
soft soap m'd, 45; value, $135 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 20,000 ; value,
$2,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 3.
Blacksmith Shops, 9 ; value of stock used, $1,265.47; value of work done, $2,990; cap., $739 ; hands emp., 11.
Tin Ware Manufact.ories,  2 ; value of' stock used,  $550 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $1,250; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 3.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 750 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 975; gross  value  of stock used,  $3,340 ;  value  of boots  and  shoes m'd,
$7,oo ; cap., $750 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 1.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $25,000 ; straw hats  m'd,  58,817 ; value,  $85,000 ; cap.,
$10,000; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 100.
Palm  Leaf Hats,  Hoods,  and  Bonnets,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1 ;
value of  st.ock used, $510 ; cap., $670 ; f. emp., 60.
Casks, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $800 ; casks
m'd, 250 ; value, $1,800 ;,cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 2.
Coffins and  Burial  Cases  of  all  kinds,   2 ; value   of  stock  used,   $192 ;
coffins made, 154 ; value, $1,317.48; cap., $800; hands emp., 3.
Gas, establishments for m. of, I ; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of gas m'd, $4,700 ; &p., $36,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Ice for market, establishments   for  preservation   of,  1; t.ons   preserved,
300 ; value, $300 ; hands emp., 2.
Bakeries, I ; value of stock used, $2,140 ; value of Bread m'd, $3,500 ;
cap., $700; hands emp., 3.
Whale Fishery, vessels emp. in, 7 ; t.onnage, 2,087 ; gallons of Sperm Oil imported, 2,530 ; value, $4,780 ; gallons of Whale Oil imported, 579 ; value, $810; cap., $149,000 ; hands emp., 156.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries,  vessels  emp.  in,  6; t.onnage,  290 ; cap.,
$45,000 ; hands emp., 56.
Shell Fish, bOBh. taken, 641; value, $518 ; hands emp., 21.
Herrings  taken,  15,446;  value,  $154.46;  hands  emp.,  7•  .
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 7 ; t.onnage, 1,047 ;
value, $58,364 ; amount received for freight, $38,860; hands emp., 35.
Farms, 111; acres, 6,175;  value, including Buildings, $140,735 ; acres
improved, 6,167 ; persons emp., 245.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,513. Unimprovable Land, acres, 500. Woodland, acres, 705 ; value, $9,500.
Indian  Com, acres, 236 ; bOBh., 7,465 ; value, $10,483. Wheat, acres.,. 8; bush., 62!; value,  $105•


...
Digitized by Google
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF M.ASSACHUSE'ITS.	428
NA..NTUCl[BT  Co.	NA..NTUCll:.ET.

Rye, acres, 81; bush., 28 ; value, $40.70. Barley, acres, 50 ; b118h., 1,100 ; value, $1,866. Oats, acres, 61 ; bush., 82 ; value, $83.20.
Potatoes, acres, 46 ; bush., 4,807 ; value, $4,855.90.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 27 ; bush., 4,986 ; value, $1,787.
Onions, acres, It ; b118h., 189 ; value, $227. Carrots, acres, 91- ; b118h., 2,425 ; value, $820.90. Wmter  Squash, acres,     ; value,   $25.50.
Garden Seeds, value, $200.
Market Gardening, acres, 10 ; value of products, $800.
Beets and .other esculent vegetables, acres, 8 ; bush., 1,115; value, $424 ; value of  Garden Seeds prepared for market, $200.
Hops, acres, l; lbs., 150 ; value, $60.	,
Cranberries, acres, 140 ; bush., 521; value, $156f.
English  Mowing,  acres,  800 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,350 ;  value,
$25,747.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 22 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 211- ; value, $204.	·
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 56f ; tons of salt hay, 132f ; value, $1,270. . Sheep, 2,153; value, $7,837.50; lbs. of Wool produced, 3,623 ; value,
$3,058.
Hones, 251; value, $20,746 ; Mules, 1; value, $50 ; Oxen over four years old, 26; Steers under four years old, 84 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,142 ; Milch Cows, 449 ; Heifers, 122 ; value of cows and heifers, $18,927 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (13 Bulls,) $825 ; gallons of llilk  sold,  10,831;  value,  $2,599.44 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 14,436 ; value, $6,137.48.
dressed, lbs., 117,090 ; value, $16,162. Pork, dressed, lbs., 56,958; value, $11,119. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 25,890 ; value, $8,588.60• • Veal, dressed, lbs., 11,423; value,  $1,856.
Swine, 1O&,; value, $2,153 ; value of Poultry sold, $667 ; value of Eggs sold, $953 ; lbs.of Honey, 65 ; value, $82; value of unenumerated articles of  Farm Produce, $1,912.
Peat, loads of, 3,841 ; value, $6,124.
Codfish taken, qtls., 457 ; value, $3,208; Haddock, qtls., 1051- ; value,
$481; Pollock,  qtls.,  1681;  value,  $578; value  of  salt  consumed,
$510; bbls. of Bluefish taken, 193; value, $1,889 ; (lbs. of bluefis'h, 8,640 ; value, $54.60 ; Cod and Haddock, qtls., 14; value, $84 ; Herring  and .Perch  taken,  value,  $600 ; hands  emp.,  8; Eela, 18
bbls. ; value, $180 ; taken in boats from shore.)
•
424	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
BELLINGHAM:,	NORFOLK   Co.

Grapes, lbs., 1,115 ; value, $185. Beans, bush., 57 ; value, $171.
Mittens and Socks, establishments for knitting, 1 ; mittens m'd, 822 doz.; value, $905.20 ; socks m'd, 6 doz.; value, $46.
Rag Carpeting, yards, 875 ; value, $656.25.
Ladies' Fancy Work, Needle Work, Wax  Work, Shell Work, Moss Work, &c., value, $848.75.



N O R F O L K	C O U N T Y .


BELLINGHAM.
Woollen Mills, 8; sets of machinery, 9 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 104,000 ; gross value of stock  used, $80,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd,
40,000 ; value, $32,000 ; yards of Flannel or Blanketing, 260,000 ; value, $78,000 ; cap., $52,000 ; m. emp., 48 ; f. emp., 87.
Shoddy, establishments for m. of, 1; - value of stock used, $8,000 ; pounds of Shoddy m'd, 100,000 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 2.
Ploughs and other agricultural implements, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; articles m'd, horse rakes, 833; hand do., 800 dozen ; scythe snaiths, 50 dozen ; grain cradles, 27 dozen ; wine
· presses, 115 ; value of same, $7,250 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 10. Harnesses, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 25 ; value, $400 ;
value of stock used, $200 ; cap., $25 ; bands emp., 1.
Boats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of materials used, $150 ; num­ ber of boats built, 15 ; value, $450 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Black.smith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $500 ; value of -work done,
$1,300;  cap., $350; hands emp., 2.
Glue }lanufactories and Manufactories for the preparation of Gums, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; value of glue and gums m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 471,000 ; value of stock used, $85,309 ; value of boots m'd, $121,675 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 65 ; f. emp.,5.
Straw Braid m'd, value, $4,064.50.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,820 ; value, $7,281.50 ; cap., $2,427.16 ; hands emp., 50.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.
Nonl'OLK Co.	BJU.INTREB.

Saw Mills, 7 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,010,164 ; value,
$12,122 ; number of shingles prepared for market, 140,000 ; value,
$560 ; cap., $9,540 ; hands emp., 10.
Farms, 157 ; acres, 11,160 ; value, including Buildings, $861,689 ; acres improved, 5,487 ; penons emp., 188.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,884. Unimprovable Land, acres, 57. Woodland, acres, 1,282 ; value, $40,425.
Indian Corn, acres, 150; bush., 8,585 ; value, $5,547.
Rye, acres, 861; bush.,  4691;  value, $797.75.
Barley, acres, 171;  bush., 21>8 ; value,  $887.
Oats, acres, 451 ; bush., 981; value, $788.85.
Potatoes, acres, 129}; bush., 11,556 ; value, $8,687.50.
English Mowing,acres, 1,497 ; tons English hay, 871t ; value, $17,425.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 4551 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 820 ; value, $8,182.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,01!; value of apples, $1,061.50 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 100 ; value of pears,  $10 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $150.
Sheep, 4 ; value, $25.
Horses, 160 ; value, $8,817 ; Oxen over four years old, 47 ; steers under four years old, 25 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,585 ; Milch Cows, 814 ; Heifers, 41 ; value of cows and . heifers, $12,575 ; description, number, and value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (2 young Bulls,) $85; gallons of Milk sold, 1,649!; value, $855.78; pounds of Butter sold, 5,885 ; value, $2,028.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 5,255 ; value, $518.50. Pork, dressed, lbs., 56,427 ; value, $9,007.78 Veal, dressed, lbs., 16,450 ; value, $2,045.20.
Swine, l80 ; value, $2,055; value of Poultry sold, $114; value of Eggs sold, $788 ; lbs.of Honey, 50 ; value, $18 ; value of unenumerated articles ol Farm Produce, $8,889.



BRAINTREE.

Woollen Mills, 1; sets of machinery, 1; lbs. Scoured Wool eonsumed, 80,000 ; gross value of stock used, $88,000 ; lbs. of Yam m'd  and  not made into cloth, $22,500 ; value, $41,625; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 4;  (.emp. 4.
"
426	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
BB.UlffRJCL	NORl'OLK.  Co.

Linen, establishments for the m. of; 1; value of stock used, $250,000 ; yards of Linen m'd, 1,400,000 ; value, $140,000 ; lbs. of other Linen goods m'd, (yarn, twine, &c.,) 550,000 ; value of linen, $225,000; cap., $150,000 ; m. emp., 100 ; £ emp., 200.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for the m. of; 1; value of stock  used, $1,990 ; value of machinery m'd, $5,000 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; hands	p., 6.
Tack and Brad Manufactories, 1; value of stock nsed, $10,560; tons of tacks and brads m'd, 62 ; value, $24,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Paper Mannfactories, l ; tons of stock consumed, 806 ; value, $86,120 ; tons of wrapping paper m'd, 204 ; value, $59,960 ; cap., $25,000 ; m. emp., 10 ; £ emp., '-
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, WagoM, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of; 8 ; number m'd, 184 ;value, $88,125 ; value of  stock used, $14,054 ; cap., $8,900 ; hands emp., 80.
Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 22 ; value, $52,000 ; value of materials used, $31,000 ; hands emp., 85.
Blacksmith Shops, 3 ; value of stock used, $1,486; value of work done,
$2,400 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 162,172 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 4,969 ; gross value of stock used, $429,245 ; value of boots  and shoes m'd, $648,682;  cap., $189,400;  m. emp., 555 ; £ emp., 94.
Last Manufactories, l ; value of stock used, $1,300 ; lasts m'd, 26,000 ;
value, $6,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of; l ; tons preserved,
600 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 1,089 ; vlllue, $7,646 ;
cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Farms, 138; acres, 5,241 ; value, including Buildings, $501,785 ; acres improved, 8,037 ; persons emp., 169.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,007. Unimprovable Land, acres, 21. Woodland, acres, 3,028 ; value, $88,054.
Indian Corn, acres, 811- ; bush., 2,863 ; value, $4,017.
Rye, acres,. 5i ; bush., 90; value, $180.
Barley, acres, 2 ; bush., 80 ; value, $52. Potatoes, acres, 72 ; bush., 5,616 ; value, Sli,616.
Turnips cultivated  as field crop, acres, 4} ; bush., 844 ; value,  $258.



a	Digitized by Google

1865.]
....
INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	427
Nouou: Co.	BBOOKLINE.
Onions, acres, 7 ; bush., 1,081; value, $1,891. Carrots, acres, 1 ; bush., 425 ; value, $200.
Cabbage, acres, 6 ; value, $850.	•
Winter Squash, acres,	; value, $125. Market Gardening, acres, 17 ; value, $3,150.
Cranberries, acres, 25 ; bush., 550; value, $1,650.
English Mowing, acres, 1,263 ; tons English bay, l!f29 ; value, $28,146.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 570 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 842 ; value, $8,420.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 86 ; tons of salt hay, 54 ; value, $810.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,541 ; value of apples, $917 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 867 ; value of  pears,  $490 ; other trees cultivated for their fruit, 462 ; value, $848 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  8',978.
Sheep, 105 ; value, $525 ; lbs. Wool produced, 815; value, $283. Horses,  223 ; value, $19,420 ; Oxen over four years old,  10 ;  value,
$800 ; Milch  Cows, 261; Heifers,  16 ; value  of cows and heifers,
$14,745 ; gallons of Milk sold, 49,478 ; value, $9,849 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,161 ; value, $2,064.
Beef, lbs. dressed, 639,500 ; value, $65,709. Pork, lbs. dressed, 17,950 ; value, $2,465. Mutton, lbs. dressed, 28,300 ; value, $2,955. VeaI, lbs. dressed, 40,155 ; value, $5,257.
Swine, 71 ; value, $710 ; value of Poultry sold, $421 ; value of Eggs
.  sold, $866.
Emery Cloth, establishments  for the  m. o( 1; reams  m'd, 300 ; value,
$9,500 ; value of stock used, $7,500 ; cap., $2,000; m. cmp., 4.


BROOKLINE.

Saddles, Harnesses and Tnmks, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 12; value, $906 ; value of stock used, $480 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Carriages  m'd, 18 ; value,  $2,500 ; value  of stock  used,  $800 ; cap.,
$900 ; hands emp., 2.
llaster Builders, 6 ; Buildings erected, 6 ; value, $44,000 ; value of materials used, $24,100 ; hands emp., 80.	·
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $9,900 ; value of work done,
$16,500 ; cap., $7,500 ; hands emp., 12.
,
428	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
BROOKLINE.	NOBl'OLK  Co.

Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $6,800 ; bands emp., 4.
Tanning and Currpng Establishments, 2 ; value of stock uaed, $8,465; Hides tanned, 6,760 ; hides tanned and curried, 500 ; value of Leather tanned  and curried,  $67,600 ; cap., $19,000 -,  bands emp., 10.
Boots, pairs  of  all kinds m'd,  100 ; Shoes,  pairs   of   all  kinds  m'd, 16    ;
gross value of sto\ used, $550 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,050;
cap., $825 ; m. emp., 2.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of  stock  used,  $7,200 ; value of  gas   m'd,  $16,000;  cap.,  $77,000;  bands emp., 5.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $15,000; value of Bread m'd, $20,000;
cap., $3,500 ; bands emp., 4.	·
Farms, 29 ; acres, 1,197 ; value, including Buildings, $568,900 ; acres of land improved, 1,197 ; persons emp., 102.
Unimproved Land, acres, 82. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 5. Woodland, aci'eB, 298 ; value, $29,800.
Indian  Corn, acres, 7l; bush., 225 ; value, $225.
Rye, acres, 12 ; bu3h., 320 ; value, $400.
Potatoes, acres, 46 ; bush., 6,067 ; value, $3,640.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5f ; bush., 2,000; value, $600.
Onions1 acres, 6 ; bush., 1,200 ; value, $800. Carrots, acres, 81; bush., 1,400 ; value, $700. Cabbage, acres, 19\ ; value, $1,950.
Beets  and  other  esculent  vegetables,  acres,  2 ; value, $240.
English   Mowing,  acres,  676 ;  tons  of   English  hay,  1,048 ; value,
$26,075.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 59 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 95 ; value, $1,425.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 69l : tons of salt hay, 95 ; value, $1,425.
Apple-trees cultivated  for their  fruit,  6,275 ; value of apples,  $3,805;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,752 ; value of pears,  $28,046.
Horses, 480 ; value, $99,675 ; Oxen over four years old, 22 ; value,.
$2,200 ; Milch  Cows, 291;  Heifers,  10 ; value  of  cows  and  heifers,
$16,405 ; gallons of Milk sold, 33,475 ; value, $6,695.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 375,000 ; value, $46,875.
Veal, lbs., 2,250 ; value, $875.
Swine, 248 ; value, $2,991.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	429
NoRPOLK Co.	CANTON,


CA...	ON.
Cotton Mills, 8; spindles, 11,702 ; cotton consumed, lbs., 442,202 ; gross value of iitock used, $417,907.88 ; yards of Cotton Cloth rn'd, (Print Cloth,) 1,610,006; value, $369,570.74; lbs.of Seine Twine m'd, 128,- 626 ; value, $129,600 ; cap., $175,600 ; m. emp., 89 ; f. emp., 127."
American  Worsteds, establishments  for m.  of,   2 ;  l'alue  of  stock used,
$75,000 ; value   of fancy  and   worsted  goods  m'd,  $120,000;  cap.,
$45,000 ; m. emp., 50 ; f. emp., 60.
Hosiery, establishments for m. of, I ; value of stock used, $18,000 ; dozens of ladies' white all wool hose m'd, 6,000 ; value, $25,000 ; cap., $18,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 10.
Silk Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $70,000 ; lbs. of sewing silk m'd, 6,080 ; value, $112,000 ; ·cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 7 ; £ emp., 25.
Rolling Mills,  1; value of stock used, $182,000 ; value  of fuel used,
$60,000;  tons of  iron  m'd  and  not  made  into  nails,  2,400;  value,
$824,000; cap., $115,000 ; bands emp., 106.
Forgee, 1; value of stock used, $16,000 ; value of fuel used, $7,000 ; tons of Bar Iron, Anchors, Chain Cables, and .other articles of wrought iron m'd, 200;  value, $90,000 ;  cap.,  $50,000 ;  bands emp., 14.	•
Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value 'of  stock  used,
$49,900 ; value  of fuel  used,  $12,000 ; tons  of castings  m'd,  900 ;
•   value, $117,000 ; cap., $85,000 ; bands emp., 80.
GJ'088 value  of  Mechanics'  Tools  m'd,   and  not   elsewhere  enumerated,
$20,000 ; value  of  stock	' $10,000 ; cap.,  $10,000 ; bands emp., 26.	·
Copper .Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $617,658 ; value of fuel used, $18,000 ; tons of copper ware m'd, including sheet, bolt and yellow metal, 1,168; value, $864,800; cap.,  $148,275 ;  hands emp., 70.
Hamesses, establishments for m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 16 ; value, $800;
value of stock used, S588; cap., $400 ; bands emp., I.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,687 ;
value of clothing m'd, $4,081; cap., $500 ; m.emp., 4 ; £ emp., 1.
Master Builders,  2 ; Buildings erected, 6 ; value,  $14,600 ; value  of
materials used, $11,000 ; bands emp., 10.
Blacksmith  Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of  work done,
$8,900 ; cap., $2,100 ; hands emp., 5.
480	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1866.
C.A.NTON.	NoBNLK.  Co.

Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock wied, $667 ; value of tin ware m'd, $800 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments  for  preservation  of,  1; tons preserved,
400 ; value, $800 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 15.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $10,500 ; value of Bread m'd, $13,000 ;
cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,855; value, $10,589 ;
cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Farms,  89 ;  acres,  6,014;  value,  including  Buildings,   $397,915 ;
acres improved,  1,912 ; persons emp., 122.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,325. Unimprovable Land, acres, 139. Woodlv.nd, acres, 5,174 ; value, $144,455.
Indian Com, acres, 931; bush.,·2,376;  value, $4,752.
Rye, acres, 15 ; bush., 194 ; value, $338.60.
Potatoes, acres,  116; bush., 11,547 ; value,  $10,392.30.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 4 ; bush., 695 ; value, $345. Onions, acres, l ; bush., 100 ; value, $200.
Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 450 ; value, $192.50.
Cabbage, acres,   .; value,  $90.
Beets and other cseulent vegetables, acres, 2 ; bush., 400;  value,   $200.
Cranberries, acres, 94 ; bush., 170 ; value, $680.
English Mowing, acres, 1,095 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  800 ; value,
$25,600.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,823 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 611 ; value, $7,832.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,110 ; value of apples, $700 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,240; value of pears,  $500 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for IDJU'ket,   $1,645.
Sheep,  17 ; gross  value,  $102 ; lbs.  of  Wool  produced,  61; value,
$42.iO.
Horses, 243 ; value, $21,870 ; Oxen over four years old, 14 ; Steers under four years old, 2 ; value of oxen and steers, $1,240 ; Milch Cows, 827 ; Heifers, 57 ; value of cows and heifers, $17,775; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulls,) $120 ; gallons of Milk sold,  27,894; value,  $3,913.44;  lbs. of Butter  sold, 3,529 ; value,
$1,747 ; lbs. of Cheese, 740 ; value, $105.90.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 150,000 ; value, $21,000. Pork, dressed, lbs., 112,500 ; value, $19,125. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 9,000 ; value, $1,260. Veal, dressed, lbs. 10,500; value, $1,470.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MA.SSACHUSETIS.	481
NOB.FOLK  Co.	COBA.88ET.

Swine, 217 ; value, $2,170 ; value of Poultry aold, $589 ; value of Eggs sold, $717.
Spinning Rings, establishments  for m. of;  1;. value m'd, $10,000;  value
·  of stock used, $8,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Stove Polish m'd,  gross,  1,850;  value,  $12,950;  value  of  stock used,
$8,100; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 5.
Smoking Pipes  m'd,  value,  $1,500;  value  of stock  used,  $400; cap.,
$1,000 ; m. emp., 2.


COHASSET.
Printing Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $100; value of other prin done, $200;  cap., $100; m. emp., l,	.
Ship Yards, 1; value of materials used, $4,000 ; vessels launched, 1;
tonnage, 77 ; value, $6,500; hands emp., 15.
Boats, establishments for the m. of, l ; value of materials used, $50 ; boats built, 4 ; value, $250; cap., $80 ; bands emp., l.
Sail Lofts, 1; sails made of American fabrics during the year,  18 ;
value of the fabric, $2,884.65 ; value of the sails, $8,486.41 ; sails made of foreign fabric, 8 ; value of the fabric, $848 ; value of the sails, $428.86; cap., $125; bands emp., 1.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of clothing m'd, $150 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Master Builders, 5; Buildings erected, 15 ; value, $80,275; value of materials used, $22,710 ; hands emp., 25.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $400 ; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $875 ; hands emp., 4.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,600 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of  all kinds  m'd, 170;  shoes, pairs  of all kinds  m'd, 245;
gross value of stock used, $1,022.50 ; value of boots and  shoes m'd,
$1,565 ; cap., $450 ; m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 2.
Cigars m'd, value, $600; value of stock used, $200 ; cap. $200 ; m. emp., l.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, l ; value of stock used, $30 ; casks m'd, 87; value, $125;  cap., $50; bands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of; 1 ; tons preserved, 200 ; value, $1,000;  cap., $200;  bands emp.,  2.
Mackerel Fishery, number ofvessels employed in, 18; tonnage, 1,llOff ; bbls.of mackerel taken, 8,722}\ ; value, $127,499.56 ; value of salt
482	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
COHASSET.	NORFOLK  Co.

oollllumed in the mackerel fishery, $8,722.87 ; cap., $53,700 ; bands emp., 221.
Shell ftsh, number taken, (lobsters,) 22,000 ; value, $880 ; cap., $'80 ;
hands emp., 8.
Coastwise   or   Carrying  Trade,  number   of  vessels   engaged   in,   14:;
tonnage,   998H ;  value,   $35,600;  amount  receil"ed  for freight,
$18,710; hands emp.,  60.
Saw  Mills, 1; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  10,000;  value,
$150; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood, number of cords prepared for market, 420; value, $2,568.57 ;
cap., $1,000; hands, 44.
Farms, 71 ; acres, 3,5781; value, including Buildings, $896,096; acres of land improved, 3,477 ; persons emp., 116.
Unimproved Land, acres, 581.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 89f.
Woodland,  acres,  1,8111;  value, $54,833.75.
Indian Com, acres, 691; bush., 2,206 ; value, $4,412.
Rye, acres, 9l; bush., 175 ; value, $262.50. Barley, acres, 13i ; bush., 255; value, $255. Oats, acres, 2 ; bush., 47 ; value, $51.
Potatoes, acres, 44f ; bush., 4,645 ; value, $4,645.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 31; bush., 552 ; value, $276.
Onions, acres, 2f ; bush., 444 ; value, $666. Carrots, acres, ll ; bush., 833; value, $208.25. Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $67.
Winter Squash, acres, 2 ; value, $240.
Market  Gardening, acres, 9 ; valuf',, $827.
Beets and other esculent vegetables,. acres, 2f ; bush., 810 ; value, $824,
Cranberries, acres, 6 ; bush., 81; value, $243.
English  Mowing,  acres,  596t ; tons  of  English  hay,  873  ;  value,
$20,090.50.
Wet  Meadow or Swale mown,  1691; tons wet  meadow or  ewale     hay,
170!; value, $2,046.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 85i ; tons of  salt hay, 80; value, $800.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,340 ; value of apples,. $5,838 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,645 ; value of pears, $1,809.50 ; all  other  trees  cultivated   for  their  fruit,  2,079 ; value  of  fruit,
$3,494.30 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for  market,  $435.
Sheep, 397; value, $2,282; lbs. of Wool produced, l,'89; value, $774.28. Horses, 128 ; value, $13,312; Asses and Mules, 1; value, $25 ; Oxen
1865.]	JNDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	483
NORFOLK  Co.	DEDHAM.

over four years old, 57 ; Steers under four years old, 40 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,100 ; Milch Cows, 285 ; Heifers, 87 ; value of Cows and Heifers, $18,600 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (3 Bulls,) $225; gallons of Milk sold, 15,866 ; value, $3,687.84; lbs. of Butter sold, 18,064 ; value, $4,572.40 ; lbs, of Cheese, 1,020 ; value, $204.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 141,201; value, $21,180.15. Pork, dressed, lbs., 60,550 ; value,   $10,899.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 12,000 ; value, $2,400. Veal, dressed, lbs., 12,000 ; value, $1,680.
Swine, 140; value, $2,240 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,861.25; value of Eggs sold, $1,779 ; lbs. of Honey, 288 ; value, $84.90; value of unenumerated  articles of  Farm Produce, $17,857.	·
Irish Moes, lbs., 7,000 ; value, $850 ; cap., $75 ; hands emp., 4.


DEDHAM.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 8,000 ; cap., $80,000.
Woollen Mills, 2 ; sets of machinery, 86 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 818,000; gross value of stock used, $1,410,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 1,272,402 ; value, $1,595,000; cap,, $900,000 ; m. emp., 488 ; £ emp., 869.
Painted Carpeting, mills for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $67,600 ; yards  of  painted   carpeting  m'd,  120,260;  value,  $79,800 ; cap.,
$15,000 ; m. emp., 15.
Rolling Mills, 1; value of stock used, $50,000 ; tons of iron m'd and not made into nails, 900 ; value, $200,000 ; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., 80.
Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$45,000 ; tons of castings m'd, 425 ; value, $65,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 88.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1;value of stock used, $1,800; newspapers printed, (Dedham Gazette,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value, $1,500; cap., $800; value of all other printing done, $2,000 ; cap. invested in printing, $2,700; m. emp., 4.
Photographic Establishments, 8 ; value of stock used, $450 ; photo­ graphs taken, 6,800 ; value, $2,425 ; cap., $2,800 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 2.
Mattresses of all kinds and materials, manufactoriee  of, 1; value of stock
66
STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
DEDHAM.	NORFOLK. Co.

used, $250; mattresses  made,  50; value,  $4:00 ; cap., $800 ; m.
emp., 1.	/
Upholstery Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; value of upholstery m'd, $1,700 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 1.
Wagons, establishments for m. of, 1; wagons m'd, SO ; value, $3,000 ; value of  stock used,  $1,000 ; value  of  new  job  work,   $1,200 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Carriage Wheels, manufact.oriee of; 1; value of stock used, $100 ; wheels m'd, 24 ; value, $150 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Printing Ink, manufactories of, 1; value of  stock used, $15,000;  lbs. of
ink m'd, 125,000 ; value, $25,000 ; cap., $15,000; m. emp., 6. Clothing, establishments  for m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $7,500 ;
• value of clothing m'd, $19,800; cap., $8,200 ; m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 11. Soap, establishments for m. of, S ; value of stock used, $600 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 680; value,  $2,520; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 12,400 ;
value, $1,240; cap., $1,600 ; hands emp., 4.
Master Builders, 5 ; Buildings erected, 19 ; value, $29,500; value of materials used, $19,800 ; hands emp., 24.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $6,050 ; value of work done,
$14,800 ; cap., $2,900 ; hands emp., 16.
Cabinet Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $187,500; value of cab­ inet ware m'd, $275,000 ; cap., $95,000;  hands emp., 200.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 4 ; value of stock used, $4,250 ; value of tin ware m'd, $6,100;  cap., $2,600 ; hands emp., 5.
Medicines, establishments for m. of, 2; value of stock used, $2,000; value of medicines m'd, $5,700 ; cap., $750 ; m. emp., S.
Grist Mills, 2 ; bush. of Grain ground, 27,000 ; value, $40,500 ; cap.,
$6,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $239,000 ; Hides tanned, 180,000; hides tanned and curried, 80,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $278,000; cap.,$30,000 ; hands emp., 27. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 383; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 200; gross value of stock used, $2,678; value of boots and shoes m'd,
$5,330 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 6 ; £ emp., 1.
Straw Braid m'd and not made into bonnets or hats, value,  $8,000 ; cap., $1,500; m. emp., 1;·r. emp., 200.
Whip Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; dozens of whips m'd, 150 ; value, $800 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.
Wooden Ware of all sorts, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $75 ; value of ware m'd, $150; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 1.
1865.J	INDUSTRY ON MASSACHUSE'ITS.	485
NoaFOLJt   Co.	DEDELUI,

Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufact.ories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $300 ; coffins made, 62 ; value, $550 ; cap., $400 ;hands emp., 2.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $7,500; value of
gas m'd, $18,000 ; cap., $40,000; hands emp., 4.
Ice for market, establishments for preeervation of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 200 ; value, $1,200; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Bakeries, 2 ; value of  stock used, $5,400;  value of Bread m'd, $7,500;
cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Saw  Mills,  1; feet  of  lumber  prepared  for  market,  200,000; value.
$4,000 ; cap., $2,000; hands emp., 1.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, oords, 1,881; value, $6,655;
cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Corn and other Broome m'd, 45,000 ; value; $9,000 ; value of stock consumed,  $5,000;  cap., $2,500;  hands emp., 10.
Farme, 253; acres, 12,888; value, including Buildings,  $870,420 ;
acres improved, 6,285; pei'l!one emp., 876.
Woodland, acres, 6,504 ; value, $206,858.
Indian  Corn, acres, 252 ; bueh., 9,060 ; value,  $14,496.
Wheat, acres, ll; bueh., 24 ; value, $84. Rye, acres, 56 ; bush., 759 ; value, $1,828. Barley, acres, !i2 ; bush., 1,099 ; value, $1,648. Buckwheat, acres, 3 ; bueh., 15; value, $26.
Oats, acres, 6 ; bueh., 147; value, $147.
Millet, acres, 2 ; bush., 40 ; value, $50.
Potatoes, acres, 217 ; bueh., 17,115 ; value, $18,692.
Turnips cultivated ae a field crop, acres, 27 ; bush., 8,195; value, $958.
Onions, acres, 1; bueh., 100 ; value, $100. Carrots, acres, 7 ; bueh., 825; value, $800. Cabbage, acres, 20 ; val11e, $2,500:
Winter  Squash, acres, 8; value, $1,200.
Garden Seeds, acres, 1; value, $100.
Market  Gardening, acres, 22;  value  of products, $4,600.
Beets and other eeculent vegetables, acres, 19 ; bush., 2,080 ; value,
$1,015;  value of  Garden Seeds prepare«! for market, $100.
·Cranberries, acres, 60 ; bush., 560 ; value, $2,240.
English   Mowing,   acres,  2,102;    tons   of English hay, 2,230;    value,
$66,900.
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale mown, acres, 1,698 ; tons of wet meadow or
swale hay, 1,818; value, 819,770.	•
436	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
DORCHESTER.	NORFOLK  Co.

I
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 14,031 ; value of apples, $11,000 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,994 ; value of pears, $2,100 ; value of Nute or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $7,730.
Horses,  568 ;  value,  $56,800 ; Oxen  over four  years old, 58; value,
$4,640; Milch Cows, 819 ; Heifers,  78; value  of  cows  and heifers,
$34,320; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (20 Bulle,) $500; gallons of Milk sold, 179,996; value, $44,999 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 6,781 ; value, $2,712.40.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 239,935; value, $31,191. Pork, dressed, lbs., 126,527 ; value, $22,774. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 17,389 ; value, $1,738. Veal, dreeeed, lbs., 20,59p ; value, $3,088,
Swine, 877 ; value, $7,540 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,569 ; value of Egge sold, $1,079 ; lbs.of Honey, 180 ; value, $90 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, $8,058.
Nurseries for cultivation of Trees, Shrubs, and Flowers, 1; cap., $2,000 ; value of trees, &c., sold, $2,000 ; acres cultivated, 8 ; bands emp., 2. Burrs, Rivets, &c., manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000  ;
value of articles 'ni'd, $4,500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Dyeing and Laundry Establishments, 1; cap., $3,000 ; value of work done, $12,000 ; m.emp., 7 ; f. emp., 4.


DORCHESTER. ,

Woollen Mills, 1; sets woollen machinery, 12 ; lbs. of scoured wool consumed, 300,000 ; gross ·value of all the stock used, $400,000 ; yds. of Cassimere (Flannel and  Ladies' Cloth) m'd, $700,000 ; cap.,
$200,000 ; m. emp., 71 ; f, emp., 105.
Drees Trimmings, including gimps, · cords, buttons, fringes, and tassels, establishments for the m. of, 1; value  of stock used, $4,000 ; value of  articles m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $1,500;  m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 8.
Rolling, Slitting, and Nail Mills, (Horse ·Nail Manufactory,) 1; value of stock used, $185,000 ; number of Machines  for the manufacture of nails, 75; tons of Nails m'd, 875; value, $285,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; hands emp., 100.
Forges, 1; value of stock used, $78,000 ; Railroad and Marine Forgings, and other articles of wrought iron, tons m'd, 700 ; value, $200,000 ; cap., $40,000 ; hands 55.
HoDow  Ware  and  Castings, other  than  pig  iron, Furnaces  for  the  m.
of,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $20,000 ; Pianoforte  Plates, Railings
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE 1TS.	437
NORFOLK  Co.	DORCBB8TBL
and House Castings, tons m'd, 192 ; value, $192,000; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Hoop Skirts, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,084 ; skirts m'd, 2,275 ; value, $2,500 ; cap.,$1,500 ; m. emp,. 1;£ emp., 2. Starch Manuf'actories, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; lbs. Starch m'd from  Wheat  or  }'lour,  184,400;  value,  $15,528;   cap.,  $80,000 ;
hands emp., 12.
Paper Manufactoriee, 4 ; tons of stock consumed, 416; value, $125,000 ; tons of Printing and Plate Paper m'd, 275 ; value, $150,000; tone of Wrapping Paper, 80; value, $6,400 ; cap.,$55,000; m. emp., 16 ;
f. emp., 20.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 5 ; barn88888 m'd, 35 ; value, $1,900 ; value of stock used, $1,350 ; cap., $1,750 ; hands emp., 8.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons,  Sleighs, and  other  vehicles,
establishments  for m. of,  1; number  of wagons  m'd,  125 ;  value,
$25,000;   value  of  stock  used,  $10,000 ;  cap.,  $10,000 ; hands
emp., 20.
Confectionery,   establishments   for  the  m.  of,  2;  value  of  stock used,
$2,500 ; pounds of Confectionery made, 11,000 ; value, $4,000 ; capital, $1,200 ; m. emp., 8; £ emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,400; value of clothing m'd, $6,800 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 5. Chocolate Mille, 3 ; pounds of Chocolate m'd, 800,000 ; value, $280,000;
cap., $140,000; hands emp., 50.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; pounds of bard soap m'd, 40,000 ; value, $2,800 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands, 8.
Kerosene or refined Petroleum, establishments for the m. of, 1; Crude Petroleum, galls. used, 60,000 ; value, $18,000 ; tons coal used, 100 ; value, $800; number  of  Barrels  or other Casks  used, 1,500 ; value,
$2,250 ; galls. Keroeene  or refined  Petroleum m'd, 17,647 ; value,
$31,861.50 ; number galls. Lubricating Oil, 40,189 ; value, $24,956 ; number galls. Naptha, 2,892 ; value, $828; number of pounds of Parafline, 20,000;  value, $2,000 ; cap., $15,000;  bands emp.,  10.
Master Builders, 12 ; number of Buildings erected, 2 ; value, $25,000 ; value of materials, $16,000; hands emp., 12.
Blacksmith Shope, 18; value of stock need, $8,800 ; value of work done,
$27,900 ; cap., $12,600 ; hands emp., 29.
Cabinet Manuf'actories, 11; value of stock used, $84,700 ; value of cabinet ware m'd, $89,400 ; cap., $48,500 ; hands emp.,  88.
488	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[186lS.
DORCIIESTER.	NORFOLK  Co.


Tin Ware Manufactories, 8 ; value of stock used, $11,800 ; value of tin ware m'd, $20,997 ; cap., $14,400 ; hands emp., 21. .
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of Leather curried, $2,500 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Boot and Shoe Makers, number of, 6 ; pairs of Boots of all kinds m'd,
110 ; pairs of  Shoes of  all kinds  m'd, 80 ; gross value of  stock  used,
$8,800 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,180 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 7.	·
Cigars m'd, value, $600 ; value of stock used, $700 ; cap., $400; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 1.
· Pumps, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; value of pumps m'd, $900; cap., $500 ; hands emp.,  2.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, 1; value of stock used, $150 ; Coffins made,  50 ; value,  $250 ; cap., $250 ;  m. emp., 1.
Planing Mills, 8 ; value of stock used, $80,000 ; value of Moulding and Planing done, $56,000 ; cap., $48,000 ; hands emp., 28.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $8,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Gas, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $7,873; value
of gas m'd, $16,000 ; cap., $122,400 ; hands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 2 ; tons of ice preserved fur market, 4.000 ; value, $12,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Bakeries,  8 ;  value  of  stock  used,   $85,800 ;  value  of  Bread  m'd,
$50,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 13.
Building  Stone quarried and prepared fur market, value, $8,000 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 25 ; acres, 1,570 ; value, including Buildings, $588,600 ; acres improved, 983t ; persons emp., 74.
Unimproved Land, acres, 825. Woodland, acres, 1,329 ; value, $66,450.
Indian Corn, acres, 53; bush., 1,855 ; value, $3,710. Rye, acres, 9l ; bush., 247 ; value, $469.80.
Barley, acres, 5 ; bush., 150 ; value, $270.
Potatoes, acres, 81; bush., 10,125; value, $12,156.22. Turnips, acres, 151; bush., 12,245 ; value, $8,673.50.
Onions, acres, 7; bush., 875; value, $1,750. Carrots, acres, 25 ; bush., 20,000 ; value, $8,000• Cab acres, 88 ;  value, $8,250.
Winter  Squash, acres, 25 ;  value, $4,375.
Market  Gardening, acres, 45;  value of  products,  $14,265.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	439
NORFOLK  Co.	DOVER.

Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 16 ; bush., 4,800 ;  value,
$2,400.
English  Mowing, acres, 1,755\ ; tons of  English hay, 2,194 ; value,
$65,820.
Wet  Meadow  or Swale mown,		241\ ; tons  of wet meadow or swale hay, 250; value, $3,750.	•
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 482!; tons of salt bay, 450; value, $9,000. Apple-trees cultivated fo,: their fruit, 14,576 ; value of apples, $5,884 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 20,898 ; value of pea.rs, $7,558; all other trees cultivated for their frui', 5,108 ; value of fruit, $500 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gaered for market, (currants,
strawberries, &e.,) $8,282. Sheep, 2 ; value, $40.
Horses, 911 ; value, $186,650 ; Asses and Mules, 4;  value,  $200; · Oxen over four years old, 20 ; Steers under four yea.rs old, 2 ; value of oxen and steers, $2,200 ; Milch Cows, 554 ; Heifers, 40 ; value of cows  and  heifers,  $29,700;  gallons  of Milk  sold,  140,589; valae,
$42,176.70 ; poUDds of Butter sold, 2,000 ; value, $600. Pork, dressed, lbs., 128,160 ; value, $19,224.
Swine, 552 ; value, $14.000 ; value of Poultry sold, $257 ; Eggs sold,
$1,525.
Curtain Fixtures, establishments for the m. of, 1; gross m'd, 1,700 ; value,  $24,000 ; valhe of stock used,  $12,000;  cap., $5,000 ; m.
·  emp., 18.
Silver Plated Ware, establishments for the m. of, 1; value m'd, $60,000 ; cap., $40,000;  hands emp., 40.
Refrigerators, establishments for the m. of, 1; value m'd, $7,000 ; cap.,
$2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Willow Work, establishments for the m. of, 1; value m'd, $2,000 ; cap.,
$400 ; hands emp., 2.
Wheelwright  Jobbers,  6 ; value m'd, $5,800 ; cap., $2,200 ; hands
emp., 8.


DOVER.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 800 ; value, $9,000 ; toDB of sheathing paper m'd, 216 ; value, $21,600; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 2.
Snuff, Tobacco, and  Cigars m'd, value,  $4,700 ; value of stock  used,
$1,652 ; cap., $2,652; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 2.
440	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
FOXBOROUGH.	NORFOLK  Co.

Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,897 ; value, $5,580 ; cap., $8,881; hands emp., 7.
Farms, 121 ; acres, 8,782 ; value, including Buildings, •$270,876 ; acres improved, 1,675 ; persons emp., 240.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,627. Unimprovable Land, acres, 85. • Wood1and, acres, 4,444 ; value, $81,910.
Indian Corn, acres, 107 ; bush., 8,030; value, $4,545. Rye, acres, 28; bush., 188; value, $199.
Barley, acres, 89 ; bush., 632 ; value, $790. Oats, acres, 10 ; bush., 169 ; value, $127.
Potatoes, acres, 140 ; bush., 5,636 ; value, $4,227. Market Gardening, acres, 4 ; value of products, $470. Cranberries, acres, 6l ; bush., 6 ; value, $42.
English Mowing, acres, 797 ; tons of English hay, 620 ; value, $18,600.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 853 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 244 ; value, $2,928.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,289 ; value of apples, $1,898 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $267.
Sheep, 5 ; value, $35; lbs. of Wool produced, 22 ; value, $18.
Horses, 1.26 ; value, $7,900 ; Oxen over four years old, 86; Steers under four years old, 10 ; value of oxen and steers, $2,974 ; Milch Cows, 261 ; Heifers, 85 ; value of cows and heifers, $9,765 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (6 Bulls,) $180 ; gallons of Milk sold,  14,255 ; value,  $2,665 ; lbs. of  Butter  sold, 6,150 ; value,
$1,716.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 42,700 ; value, $4,270. Pork, dressed, lbs., 33,290 ; value, $5,548. Veal,  dressed, lbs.,  14,982 ; value, $2,097.
Swine, 73; value, $1,373; value of Poultry sold, $876 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,137.


FOXBOROUGH.

Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 484 ; lbs. of cotton consumed, 1,200 ; cotton thread  m'd, lbs., 1,000 ; value,  $1,760.
Hosiery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $760 ; dozens of ladies' cotton hose m'd, 874 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $3,600 ; m. emp., 3 ; £ emp., 8.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MA.SSACHUSETIS.	441
NORFOLK   Co.	FOXBOROUGH.

Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock . $15,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 175 ; value, $28,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 18.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $3,760 ; value of printing done, $8,600 ; cap., $2,500; m. emp., 6.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of' stock used,
$1,050 ; daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,  19,000 ;  value,
$3,150 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; harnesses m'd, 85 ; value, $1,400 ; value ot stock used,  $550 ; .cap., $200 ;
hands emp.,2.
Railroad Cars, O>aches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; number m'd, 3 covered wagons, 2 express wagons,   1 cart;  value   $1,125 ; value  of  stock   used,  $700;  cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, l ; value of stock used, $6,200 ; value of clothing m'd, $9,800; cap., $8,000; m. emp., 2; f. emp., 7.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 3; value of stock used, $900 ; bbls. of soft. soap m'd, 500 ; value, $1,600; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 6,500 ; value, $750 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shops, 4; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of work done,
$3,600; cap., $1,900; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, S400 ; value of tin ware m'd, $600 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dyestuffs m'd, value, $2,800 ; value of stock used, $875; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 2.
Grist  Mills, 2 ; bush. of Grain ground,  15,000 ; value, $25,000 ; cap.,
$4,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 97 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 167 ; gross value of stock used, $600 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,250 ; cap., $1,250 ; m. emp., 4.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,J25,000; straw bonnets m'd, 150,000; value, $500,000; straw hats m'd, 1,204,570; value, $1,000,000 ; value of straw braid m'd 811d not made into bonnets or hats, $8,000 ; cap., $400,000 ; m. emp., 250 ; f. emp., 1,400.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; coffins made, 30 ; Talue, $600 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments form. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $24,000 ; value
66
442	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
FOXBOROUGH,	NORFOLK  Co.

of wooden boxes made, $26,000 ; value of paper boxes made, $12,500;
cap., $20,000; m. emp., 26.	•
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of; 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 800 ; value, $900 ; cap., $500 ; bands emp., 1.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of building stone quarried and prepared wr market, $800 ; cap., $150 ; bands emp., I.
Saw Mills, 3 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 860,000;  value,
$12,400 ; Lathe, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 184,500 ; value, $588 ; Railroad Sleepers, value, $250 ; cap.,
· $4,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood   prepared   for  market,   cords,  8,180;   value,   $12,880;   cap.,
$800 ; bands emp., 10.
Charooal m'd; bush., 7,966; value, $1,200 ; cap., $400 ; bands emp., 1,
Farms, 185 ; acres, 11,844 ; value, including Buildings, $930,070; acres improved, 2,097 ; persons emp., 100.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,901. Woodland, acres, 6,846 ; value, $136,782.
Indian Corn, acres, 146 ; bush., 4,858 ; value, $7,000.
Wheat, acres, 3; bush., 84:; value, $120. Rye, acres, 32 ; bush., 470 ; value, S940. Barley, acres, 14 ; bush., 267 ; value, $400. Buckwheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 38; value, $57. Oats, acres, 7 ; bush., 120; value, $100.
Millet, acres, 8 ; bush., 10 ; value, $15.
Potatoes, acres, 110 ; bush., 10,514 ; value, $8,400.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 16 ; bush., 880; value, $700. Carrots, acres, ll; bush., 839 ; value, $110.
Cabbage, acres, 2!; value, $610. Winter Squash, acres, 8 ; value, $500.
Market Gardening, acres,	; value of  products, $65.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 1; bush., 262 ; value, $200. Tobacco, acres, l ; lbs., 175 ; value, $88.
Cranberries, acres, 40 ; bush., 210 ; value, $840.
English Mowing, acres, 1,250 ; tons English bay, 950; value, $28,500 Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 500 ; tons wet meadow or awale
hay, 500 ; value, $8,500.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,667 ; value of apples, $2,925 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit,  1,765 ; value  of pears,  $550 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 886 ; value of fruit, $78 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $320.




n	Digitized by Google
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS.
NoaFoLK  Co.	FRANKLIN,

Sheep,  18; value  of all  sheep,  $180 ; lbs.  of Wool  produced,  80 ;
value, $60.	•
Hones, 248 ; value, $24,005 ; .Asses and Mules,  1; value, $10;  Oxen over fuur yea.rs old, 89 ; Steers under four  years  old,  14 ; value of oxen and steers, $3,315 ; Milch Cows, 315 ;  Heifers,  67 ;  value  of cows and heifers, $16,465 ; value of Neat  Stock not embraced above,   (4 Bulls, $150, 10 Colts, $700,) $850 ; gallons of Milk sold, 26,500 ; , value, $6,650; lbs.  of Butter sold, 5,965 ; value, $2,530 ; lbs, of Cheese,  915 ; value, $183.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 82,515 ; value, $8,616. Pork, dreMed, lbA., 86,566 ; value, $14,440. Lamb, dressed, lbs., 80 ; value,  $24.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 17,502 ; value, $2,171.
Swine, J 62 ; value, $2,585 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,545 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,072 ; lbs. of Honey, 270 ; value, $108 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 26 ; value, $22 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Pro­ duce, $2,260.
Oak Baskets and Plaster Blocks, establishments fur m. of, 8 ; value m'd,
$2,600 ; value of stock used, $400 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 4.
Patent Bridle Wmkers, establishments for m. of, 1; pairs of winkers m'd, 860 ; value, $500 ; value of stock used, $120; hands emp., 1,
Sheet Iron Stoves and Funnel, establishments fur m. of, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; value of articles m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Coloring  Straw  Goods,  establishments  for,  I ; value of stock used,
$4,000 ; amount  received  for coloring straw goods, $8,200 ; cap.,
$3,000; hands emp., 8.
Hogshead and Barrel Hoops, 150,000 ; value, $8,670; hands emp., 4.
Basket and Ship Timber, value, $350.


FRANKLIN.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 1,972; lbs. of cotton consumed, 52,000 ; gross value of stock used, $39,000 ; lbs. Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 44,000 ; value, $44,000 ; cap.,$15,000 ; m. emp., 21 ; f. emp., 20. Shoddy, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $32,000 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 280,000 ; value, $42,000 ; cap., $40,000 ; m.  emp.,
25 ; £ emp., 10.
Bugle Trimmings for ladies' gannents, establishments  fur the  m. of, 1;
444	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
.   FRANKLIN,	NORFOLK Co•

value of stock used, $3,000 ; dozen of Trimmings m'd,  25,000 ; value of stock, $12,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 20,; £ emp., 80.
Rag Pickers,  establishments  for  the  m. of,  1;  value  of  stock used,
$1,000 ; value of Machinery m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $4,000 ;  hands emp., 7.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$50 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 250 ; value, $70 ; cap.,
$400 ; m. emp., 1.
Boats, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of materials used, $400 ; Boats built, 34 ; value, $1,100 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp.,  3.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of Gravestones and Monuments m'd, $900; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $375 ; bbls. of sot\ soap m'd, 330 ; value, $1,275 ; cap., $650 ; hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $1,350 ; value of work done,
$2,650 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value  of stock  used,  $500 ; value  of  tin
ware m'd, $700 ; cap., $1,000.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 7,130;  Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd,  105;
gross  value  of  stock  used,  $12,700;  value  of  boots  and  shoes m'd,
$17,081;  cap., $2,150; m. emp., 22.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for the m. of, 6; value of stock used, $381,660 ; Straw Bonnets m'd, 157,900 ; value, $221,100; Straw Hats m'd, 421,400 ; value, $397,500 ; cap., $88,000; m. emp., 139 ; £ emp., 1,580.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $5,800 ; value of wooden boxes made, (for boots, shoes, bonnets and hats,)' $13,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 7.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1 ; tons of ice pre­ served, 90 ; value, $60 ; cap., $190 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw  Mills,  4 ; feet  of  Lumber   prepared   for  market, 465,000 ; value,
$7,082 ; estimated value of slabs, $340; cap., $4,500 ; hands emp., 5. Firewood prepared for market, cords, 730 ; value, $2,685 ; cap.,$2,260 ; cords of firewood  prepared  for market by the fanners, 1,27\; value,
$5,707.
Farms, 220 ; acres, 13,352 ; value, including Buildings, $526,825 ; acres improved, 8,589 ; persons emp., 282.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 26. Woodland, acres, 4,737 ; value, $98,877.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	445
NORFOLK. Co.	FRANK.LIM • •

Indian Corn, acres, 2471; bush., 6,341; value, $10,252 ; tone com fod­ der, 151 ; value, $1,575.
Wheat.  acres,  71;  bush.,  67l; value,   $118; tone   Straw,  2f ;  value,
$37.50.
ye, acres, 66f ; bush., 641 ; value,  $1,278; tone  Straw, 28 ; value,
$499.
Barley, acres, 30; bush., 428; value, $655.50 ; tone Straw, 19 ; value,
$233.
Oata, acres, 881; bush., 1,646 ; value, $1,591; tone Straw, 54 ; value,
$650 ; acres sowed with oats and mowed for Fodder, 50 ; tone fod­ der, 421; value, $670.
Potatoes, acres, 208; bush., 17,122 ; value, $12,522.
Turnips cultivated aa a field crop, acres, 4l ; bush., 949 ; value, $420.
OnioD8, acres, t ; bush., 145 ; value, $250.
Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 494 ; value, $196.
Cabbage, acres, lf ; value,  $200.
Tobacco, acres, l; lbs., 600 ; value, $160.
Cranberries, acres, 205 ; bush., 911 ; value, $2,614.
English   Mowing,   acres,  2,011;   tone   of   English   hay,  1,488; value,
$36,706.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,045 ; tone of wet meadow or swale hay, 612 ; value, $6,792. .
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,984 ; value of apples, $2,887 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit, 551 ; value of pears, $260.50 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 148 ; value, $2.50; value of Nute or Berries cultivated or gathered  for  market, $130.
Sheep, 20; value, $120 ; lbs.of Wool produced, 891 ; value, $55.
Horses, 251 ; value, $28,917; .Asses, 1; value, $25 ; Oxen over four years old, 108 ; Steers, 84 ;  value of Oxen and Steere,  $9,918; Milch Cows, 467 ; Heifers, 67 ; value of cows and heifers, $21,594 ; Yearlings, 44 ; Colts, 11; value, $1,888; gallons of Milk sold, 12,640 ; value, $2,620.60; lbe. of Butter sold, 8,766 ; value, $3,455 ; lbs. of Cheese,  1,450;  value, $197.
Beet dressed, lbe., 18,441; value, $2,087.50. Pork, dressed, lbs., 81,776 ; value, $13,372.50. Veal, dressed, lbs., 175 ; value, $20.
Swine, 188 ; value, $1,997 ; value of Poultry sold, $868.95 ; value of Eggs sold, $957.50 ; lbe. of Honey, 825 ; value, $120; lbe. of Bees­ wax, 82 ; value, $24.50; unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, (White Beane, 487 bush.,) $1,442.75.
446	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
.   MEDFIELD.	NORFOLK Co.

Value of all other articles manufactured in the family for sale and not before  enumerated, $575.
Wooden Hat and Bonnet Blocks, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; blocks made, 700 ; value, $2,400 ; cap., $1,400 ; hands emp., 2.·
Plaster Hat and Bonnet Block.,, manufactories of, 2; value of  stock  used, $600 ; blocks made, 7,500 ; value, $1,550; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 6.
Roofing  Material,  m. of,  1; value  of stock used,  $500 ; feet of  roof
covered, 100,000 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 2.
Bonnet  Wire, establishments  for  finishing,  1; value  of  stock used,
$8,000 ; doz. of Wire finished, 12,542 ; value, $10,000 ; cap. $5,000;
m. emp., 3 ; £ emp., 2.
Wmee, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; galls.
of Wine m'd, 10,000 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp.,  8;
f.  emp., 1.
Ladies' Felt Hate and Bonnet.a, establishment.a for the m. of; 2 ; value of  stock  used,  $6,750 ;  hats  and   bonnet.a   m'd,  16,250 ; value,
$14,250 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 10 ; £ emp., 12.
Twine and Candle Wicking, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $13,000 ; lbs. of Twine and Wicking m'd, 30,000 ; value,
$15,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 8.


MEDFIELD.

Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 1; number of each m'd, 64 wagons ; value of the same, $11,000 ; value of stock used, $5,500 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used,  $800; value of work  done,
$1,200 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufa.ctories, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of tin ware m'd, $500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. Grain ground, 6,800 ; value, $6,800.
Staw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $34,000 ; straw bonnets m'd, 50,000; value, $50,000 ; straw hats m'd, 50,000 ; value, $25,000 ; Palm Leaf Hats made, 8,118 ; value, $237.83 ; cap., $16,000 ; m. emp., 82 ; £, emp.,  170.
Palm  Leaf  Hats, Hoods and Bonnets, establishments  for the m. of; 2 ;
m. emp., 23 ; f. emp., 830.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETIS•.	447
NoRFOLK Co.	MEDWAY.

Bakeries,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $15,000 ; value  of  Bread  m'd,
$20,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw )fills, 8 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  190,000 ; value,
$8,520 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 278;  value,  $1,638.
Charooal m'd, bush., 700 ; value, $850.
Farms, 102 ; acres, 6,186; value, including Buildings, $270,285 ; acres improved, 8,416 ; persons emp., 800.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,8421.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 100. Woodland, acres, 821; value, $35,459.
Indian Corn, acres, 147 ; bush., 4,875 ; value, $6,098.75.
Rye, acres, 14:t ; bush., 231; value, $288.75. Barley, acres, 43 ; bush., 885 ; value, $885. Oats, acres, 19 ; bush., 469 ; value, $422.10.
Potatoes, acree, 57 ; bush., 4,140; value, $4,140. Cranberries, acres, 21; bush., 82 ; value, $164.
English Mowing, acres, 880 ; tons of English bay, 880; value, $26,400.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 9431; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 702 ; value, $8,424.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,479 ; value of apples, $282.
Hones, 142 ; value, $14,200 ; Oxen  over  four  years  old,  74 ; value of oxen $5,400 ; Milch Cows, 36!) ; Heifers, 20 ; value of cows and heifers, $14,070 ; gallons of Mille sold, 2,584 ; value, $506.80 ; lbs. of  Butter sold, 7,934 ; value, $1,983.50.
Beef, dressed, lbe., 100,000 ; value, $12,200. Pork, dressed, lbs., 52,529 ; value, $6,854. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 7,000 ; value, $860.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 27,947 ; value, $3,598.
Swine, 86 ; value, $1,290 ; value of Poultry sold, $850 ; value of Eggs aold, $968.


MEDWAY.

Cotton Mills, 5 ; Cotton Spindles, 2,800 ; lbs. cotton consumed, 642,028; value of stock used, $72,971 ; Cotton Thread m'd, lbs., 81,907 ; value, $48,830 ; lbs. Cotton Batting m'd, 448,550; value, $90,870 ; Pelisse Wadding m'd, bales, 82,500 ; value, $17,400 ; cap., $26,300 ; m. emp., 26; £ emp., 20.
Shoddy, establishments  for the m. of; 2 ; value of stock used, $9,680 ;
448	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
MEDWAY.	NORFOLK Co.

shoddy m'd, lbs., 253,600; value, $31,552 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 16 ; f. emp., ll.	.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for m. of, 2 ; gross value of stock used, $600 ; value of machinery m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 3.
Paper Manufactories, 2 ; tons of stock consumed, 850 ; value, $45,000 ; tons of Wrapping Paper m'd, 880 ; value, $65,000 ; cap., $23,000 ;
m. emp., 13.
Organs, Melodeons, and Harmoniums, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $3,100 ; organs m'd, 8 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 8.
Clothing, establishments for m. of; 2 ; value of stock used, $2,200 ; value of clothing m'd, $8,600 ; cap., $700 ; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 2.
Soap, establishments for the m. of; 1; value of stock used, $180; soft soap m'd, bbls., 75 ; value, $860.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of work done,
$5,000 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of tin ware m'd, $900; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,  148,876 ; groBB  value  of  stock   used,
$229,296 ; value of boots m'd, $353,225; cap., $14,500 ; m. emp., 342. Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $90,000 ; straw bonnets m'd, 60,000 ; value, $60,000 ; straw hats  m'd, 90,000 ; value, $90,000 ; value  Straw Braid  m'd, $2,000 ;
cap., $25,000; m. emp., 18; f. emp., 350.
Brick Yards, 2 ; bricks m'd, 200,000; value, $1,600 ; cap., $500 ; bands emp., 6.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,600 ; value of wooden boxes made, $14,000 ; cap., $3,200 ; m. emp., 6.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 500 ; value, $400 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills,  6 ; feet of Lumber  prepared for market, 1,827,000 ; value,
$18,342 ; Shingles 'prepared  for market, 70,000; value, $210 ; cap.,
$5,600 ; hands emp., 10.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 1,444 ; value, $4,460.
Farms, 176 ; acres, 10,526; value, including Buildings, $572,665 ; acres
improved, 6,642; persons emp., 179. Unimproved Land, acres, 3,963.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 46. Woodland, acres, 401;  value,  $29,210.
Indian Corn, acres, 317 ; bush., 8,453; value,  $10,566.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	449
NoaFOLK Co.	MEDWAY.

Wheat, acres, 3 ; bush., 30 ; value, $70. Rye, acres, 611; bush., 865 ; value, $1,081. Barley, acres, 371; bush., 752 ; value, $752. Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 20 ; value, $15. Oats, acres, 121;  value, $3,203.
Potatoes, acres, 161 ; bush., 12,950 ; value, $9,071.20.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1; bush., 700 ; value, $175. Cranberries, acres, 56 ; bush., 305 ; value, $700.
English   Mowing,  acres,  1,403;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,289 ; value,
$32,225.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 881; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 588 ; value, $5,880.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,800 ; value of apples, $7,200 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 150 ; value of  pears,   $150.
Saxony Sheep, of different grades, 4 ; Merino Sheep, 103 ; all other kinds of sheep, 46 ; gross value of all sheep, $650 ; lbs. of Wool pro­ duced from Saxony sheep, 26 ; value, $15 ; lbs. Merino wool, 181; value, $137 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 249 ; value,  $100.
Horses,  137  ;  value,  $11,410 ; Mule,  1;  Oxen  over   four   years old, 90 ; Steers under four years old, 14 ; value  of  oxen  and  steers, $8,495 ; Milch Cows, 547 ; Heifers, 45 ; value of cows and heifers, $14,450 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (2 Ayr­ shire&, 1 Jersey Bull, $250 ; 59 dry cows for fattening, $2,000 ;) gallons of Milk sold, 20,196 ; value, $4,039.20 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 17,629 ; value, $6,064;  lbs. of Cheese, 1,595; value,  $220.
dressed, lbs., 67,562; value, $7,432. Pork, dressed, lbs., 90,000 ; value, $13,500. VeaI, dressed, lbs., 25,609 ; value, $3,073.
Swine, 190 ; value, $3,000 ; Poultry sold, value, $437 ; Eggs sold, value, $273; lbs. of Honey, 320 ; vs.Jue, $148; value of unenumer­ ated articles of Farm Produce, $500 ; 7,000 Hoops prepared for market ; value, $175.
Cider, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; description and quantity m'd, bbls.,  1,800  cider,  10   wine ;  value, $7,275 ;  value of stock used,
$5,680 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 5.
Organ Pipe Manufactory, 1; pipes made, 5,087 ; value, $3,000 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; cap., 100 ; m. emp., 3.
Bonnet Wire Manufactory, 1; value of wire m'd, $10,000 ; value of stock used, $8,000; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 3.
57
450	STATISTICS OF T
(1865.
 	•	
MILTON.	NORPOLJS: Co.

MILTON.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 350 ; value, $90,000 ; tons of Printing Paper m'd, 250 ; value, $110,000 ; cap., $40,000 ; m. emp., 21 ; £ emp., 25.
Chocolate Mills, 1; lbs. Chocolate m'd, 160,000 ; value, $64,000 ; cap.,
$30,000;  bands  emp., 14.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $3,000 ; value of work done,
$7,300 ; cap., $2,000.	•
Tanning Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $120,000; Hides tanned, 2,040,000 ; value of Leather tanned, $175,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; bands emp., 20.
India Rubber Goods, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock  used,
$9,000 ; value  of goods m'd,  $18,000 ; cap.,  $10,000 ; m. emp., 8;
£ emp., 3.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation ot; 1; tons of ice pre­ sened, 2,500; value, $1,200 ; cap., $2,500 ; bands emp., 5.
Bakeries,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $10,800 ; value  of  Bread m'd,
$37,000; cap., $10,000 ; bands emp., 14.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of Granite quarried and prepared for market, $3,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Firewood  prepared  for market,  cords,  1,468 ; value, $7,238.
Farms,  125;  acres,  6,168 ; value,  including  Buildings,  Sl,090,670 ;
acres improved, 4,652 ; persons emp., 217.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 2,671.
Woodland, acres, 1,867 ; value, $62,250.
Indian Corn, acres, 100 ; bush., 3,615; value, $4,526.50.
Rye, acres, 88 ; bush., 691 ; value, $941.
Barley, acres, 9l; bush., 218 ; value, $305.50.
·Potatoes, acres, 86; bush., 7,828;  value, $6,010.25.
Turnips  cultivated  as a  field  crop, acres,  141; bush., 2,210 ; value,
$781.50.
Onions, acres, 6 ; bush., 1,259 ; value, $1,728.50.
Carrots, acres, 71; bush., 2,273; value, $914.
Cabbage, acres, 121; value, $1,876. Wmter Squash, acres, 3 ; value, $634.
Market Gardening, acres, 46 ; value of products, $6,891.
Beeta and  other  esculent  vegetables,  acres, 3 ; bush.,  1,280 ; value,
$679.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,842 ; tons  of English hay,  1,602 ; value,
$37,805.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	451
NouoLK Co.	NEEDllil(.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 304;  tons of wet meadow  or  swale
hay, 255 ; value, $3,055.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 2521 ; tons of salt hay, ·336 ; value, $4,417. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,383 ; value of apples, $5,698 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit, 4,656;  value  of  pears,  $2,885 ; all  other trees  cultivated   for  their  fruit, 542 ; value  of  fruit, $727  ;
value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated  or gathered  fqr market,    $1,947.
Horses, 363 ; vAlue, $54,450; Asses and Mules, 4 ; value, $250; Oxen over four years old, 34 ; Steers under four years  old, 4 ; value  of oxen and steers, $4,000 ; :Milch Cows, 420 ; Heifers, 75 ; value of cows  and  heifers,  $27,075;  gallons  of   Milk  sold,  107,921;    value,
$20,800 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 2,002 ; value, $827. Beet; dressed, lbs., 56,350; value, $5,746.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 56,570 ; value, $9,228. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 50 ; value, $6.
Vea1, dressed, lbta., 2,210 ; value, $206.
Swine, 822 ; value, $5,291 ; value of Poultry sold, $441 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,062 ; lbs. Honey, 556; value, $187 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, $4,870.
Jellies, Jams, and Preserved Fruits, establishments for the m. of, 1; value  of stock  used,  $1,800 ; value  pf articles  m'd, $2,500 ; cap.,
$2,000; hands emp., 2.
Wool pulled from Pelts and cleansed, establishments, 1; lbs. Wool pulled  and prepared  for market, 100,000 ; value, $67,000 ; cap.,
$50,000; hands emp., 9.
Nureery Business, amount of stock in Trees, Shrubs, &e., $4,000 ;  value of annual sales, $3,250 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Green House Establishments, 4 ;amount of stock in Floral Plants and Shrubs, $4,500 ; value of annual sales of Cut Flowers, Plants, &c.,
•$3,500; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 6.


NEEDHAM.
Shoddy, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; lbs. of Shoddy m'd,  128,422;  value, $8,000;  cap., $2,500;  m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 8.
Hoeiery, establishmenta for m. of, 6 ; value of stock used, $31,950 ; quantity   of   hosiery   m'd,  dozen,  17,580;   value,  $72,750;   cap.,
$61,500 ; m. emp., 3; £ emp., 96.
452	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
NEEDBA.H.	NORFOLK  Co.

Silk Manuf&ctories, 1; value of stock used, $87,500 ; lbs. Sewing Silk m'd, 8,000 ; value, $42,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp•• 2; f. emp., 10. Cotton,  Woollen,  and  other  Machinery,  establishments  for m. of, 1;
gross value of stock used, $10,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $24,000 ;
cap., $8,000;  hands emp., 20.
Blind Hinges and Fastenings, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; iron and brass hinges and fastenings m'd, pairs, 100,000 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Paper Manufactorie11, 5; stock consumed, tons, 1,107 ; value, $131,800 ; tons of Printing Paper m'd, 580; value, $159,000; tons of Wrapping Paper m'd, 100 ; value, $24,000 ; all other kinds of paper  m'd, tons,  95 ; value, $26,200;  cap., $159,000 ; m. emp., 41 ; f. emp., 84.
Paper Collar Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; collars m'd,
167,000; value, $3,800 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 18.
Master Builders, 6 ; Buildings erected, 11; value, $28,200; value of materials used, $14,700 ; hands emp., 17.
Blacksmith Shops, 3 ; value of stock used, $2,200 ; value of work done,
$4,800 ; cap., $1,600 ; hands emp., 6.
White Lead and other Paints, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used $5,000; quantity of all other Paints m'd, lbs., 86,000; value, '$6,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Glue Manufactories, 2 ; value ·of stock used, $2,500 ; value of Glue and Gums m'd, $4,000;  cap., $5,000;  hands emp., 6.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,700 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 63,600 ;
gross  value  of stock  used, $50,300 ; value  of  boots  and  shoes m'd,
$78,600 ; cap., $21,800 ; m. emp., 54 ; £ emp., 16.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1;. value of stock used,. $15 ; value of paper boxes made, $60 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 2.
Firewood  and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 2,102;  value,  $12,612.
Farms, 201 ; acres, 9,888; value, including Buildings, $812,345 ; acres improved, 4,800 ; persons emp., 289.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 1,450.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 22.
Woodland, acres, 5,850 ; value, $234,000.
Indian Com, acres, 219 ; bush., 6,829 ; value, $18,658.
Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 6; value, $18.
Rye, acres, 79 ; bush., 1,221; value, $2,136.75.
Barley, acres, 82; bush., 650 ; value, $975. Buckwheat,. acres, 2 ; bush., 20 ; value, $40. Oats, acres, 121; bush., 215; value, $215.
Potatoes, acres, 208; bush., 18,192 ; value, $18,192.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	458
NORFOLK  Co.	NEEDHAM.

Turnips   cultivated  a.s  a  field  crop,  acres,  46 ;  bush.,  6,968 ;  value,
$2,787.20.
Onions, bush., 405 ; value, $810.
Carrots, acres, 11; bush., 2,235; value, $1,117.50. Cabbage, acres, 16 ; value, $2,800.
Winter Squash, acres, 18; value, $1,471.80.
Market Gardening, acres, 25 ; value of products, $8,859.25. Beets and all other esculent vegetables, value, $2,641.
Cranberries, acres, 661;  bush., 20;  value, $120.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,822 ; tons  of  English  hay,  1,663!; value,
$58,222.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 772 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 660 ; value, $11,880.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,360; value of apples, $3,944 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,267 ; '\'alue of pears, $750 ; Pea.ch-trees cultivated for their fruit, 240 ; value of fruit, $88 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $800 ; value of Grapes produced, $1,185.
Sheep, 14 ; value, $140.
Horses, 329 ; value, $27,890 ; Asses and Mules, 6; valu8r $1,250 ; Oxen over four years old, 20 ; value of  oxen,  $1,700;  Milch Cows, 447 ; Heifers, 67 ; value of cows and heifers, $28,065 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (2 Bulls,) $100 ; gallons of Milk sold, 22,062 ; value, $4,853.64; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,799 ; value,
$2,817.60 ; lbs. of Cheese, 75 ; value, S15. Beef, dressed, lbs., 298,900 ; value, $49,963. Pork, dressed, Iba., 91,028 ; value, $15,474.76. Veal, dressed, lbs., 15,740 ; value, $1,967.50.
Swine, 265 ; value, $4,290 ; value of Poultry sold, $773 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,580.10 ; lbs. of Hodey, 785;  value, $275.62.
Paper Bag Manufactory, 1; value of stock used, $40,000 ; quantity m'd, 15,000,000; value, $50,000; cap., $15,000 ; males emp., 3; f., emp., 6.
Wheelwright Shops,.3 ; value of stock used, $750; value of goods made,
$2,450 ; cap., $1,400 ; m.emp., 4.
Neat's Foot Oil Manufactory, 1; gallons m'd, 50 ; value, $100. Tripe, place for preparing, 1; lbs. prepared, 5,000; value, $350. Hogshead Hoops m'd, 15,000 ; value, $375.
Paper Tarring establishments,  1; value of stock used, $200 ; business
done, $500 ; cap., $100; m. emp., 1.
454
STATISTICS  OF THE
(1865.
QUINCY.

NORFOLK   Co.


QIDNCY.

Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1 ; value of stock used, $300; newspapers printed, (Quincy Patriot,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value,
$1,000 ; cap., $400 ;  value of all other printing  done, $800 ; cap.,
$300 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 1.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock  used,
$225 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 2,000 ; value, $800 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.
Harnesses, establishments fo m. of, 2 ; harnesses m'd, 5; value, $200 ; value of stock used, $125 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 4.
Ship Yards, 1 ; value  of  materials used, $58,000 ; vessels  launched, 2 ;
amount of tonnage, 1,559 ; value, $75,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; hands emp., 50.
Boats, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of materials used, $875 ; Boats built, 5; value, $1,100 ; cap,, $800 ; hands.emp., 3.
Sail  Lofts,  1;  Sails  made  of  foreign  fabric,  50 ; value  of  the fabric,
$8,000 ; value of the sails, $12,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 3. Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 2 ; num­
ber m' 5 wagons, 2 sleighs ; value, $760 ; value of stock used, $500 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 5.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $24,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $84,500; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 10 ; f. emp., 40. Marble and Stone, establishments for the m. of articles from, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of gravestones m'd, $4,500 ; cap., $200 ;
hands emp., 5.
Master Builders, 5 ; Buildings erected, 8 ; value, $1,825; value of materials uaed, $1,167 ; hands emp., 6.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,400; value of work done, $10,000 ; cap., $2,900 ; hands emp., 7.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $900 ; value of Tin Ware m'd, $1,800 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 6 ; value of stock used, $11,400 ; Hides  tanned,  15,600 ;  hides  curried,  82,200 J   value   of   Leather tanned  and  curried,  $160,220 ; cap.,  $76,400 ;  bands  emp., 43.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 118,787 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd,
962; gross value of stock used, $808,155 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $467,665;  cap., $61,000 ; m. emp., 851; f. emp., 121.
Blacking, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $.5,000 ;
:value of Blacking m'd, $10,000 ; cap., n,ooo ; hands emp., 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	455
NoRPOLK   Co.	QUINCY.

Pumps, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $40 ; value of  Pumps m'd, $90; cap., $100; hands emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of; 1; value of stock used, $18; oofflns made, 12; value, $30 ; cap., $100; hands emp.,  1.
Gas, establishments for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of gas m'd, $4,000; cap., $12,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 2 ; tons of ice preserved, 2,100 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $2,200 ; hands, emp., 8.
Bakeries,  1;  value  of  stock  used,  $7,000 ;  value  of   Bread  m'd,
$10,000;  cap., $1,000;  m. emp., S; £ emp., 2.
Shell  Fish,  bush. taken,  (Clams,)  2,500 ; value,  $2,500; cap.  $500 ;
hands emp., 8.
Alewives taken, 15,000; value, $150; hands emp., 7.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 8; tonnage, 888 ; value, $59,000; amount received for Freight, $44,627; hands emp., 21.
Stone Quarries, 10;  Building Stone quarried and  prepared  for market,
$271,880; cap., $188,600 ; hands emp., 806.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 761;value, $6,088 ; cap., $2,000 ;
hands emp., 86.
Farms, 66 ; acres, 4,095 ; value, including Buildings, $564,650 ; acres improved, S,688; persons emp., 151.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,050. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,000. Woodland, acres, 2,850; value, $85,500.
Indian Corn, acres, 97 ; bush., 8,004 ; value, $4,506.
Rye, acres, 11; bash., 167; value, $288.90.
Barley, acres, 2 ; bush., 16 ; value, $82.
Potatoes, acres, 40;  bash., 5,022;  vtdue, $6,277.60.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  11;  bush., 2,201; value,
$1,100.50.
Onions, acres, 4; bush., 488; value, $976.
Carrots, acres, 6; bush., 1,975;  value,  $987.50.
Cabbage, acres, 7; value, $1,258.
Winter Squash, acres, 4; value, $282.
Market Gardening, acres, 5; value of products, $928.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2 ; bush., 520; value, $260.
Cranberries, acres, l; bush., 20; value, $100.
English  Mowing, acres, 1,495;  ions  of  English  bay,  1,626 ; value,
$56,910.
456	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
RANDOLPH,	NORFOLK   Co.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 60 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  57 ; value, $798.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 698 ; tons of salt bay, 732 ; value, $14,640. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,940 ; value of apples, $3,084 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,789 ; value  of pears, $1,483; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,122; value, $500 ; value of Berries  cultivated  or  gathered  for market,  $750 ; value of Grapes
cultivated  or gathered  for market, $300.
Sheep, 73 ; value, $865; lbs. of Wool produced, 219 ; value, $109.50. Horses, 447 ; value, $67,050 ; Oxen over four years old, 36 ; value,
$4,500 ; Milch Cows, 545 ; Heifers, 25 ; value of cows and heifers,
$27,875; gallons of Milk sold, 210,226; value, $42,045.20 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 500 ; value, $200.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 669,200 ; value, $80,204. Pork, dressed, lbs., 180,410 ; value, $23,473.80. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 9,100 ; value, $1,092.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 16,050 ; value, $2,086.50.
Swine, 530 ; value, $10,600 ; value of Poultry sold, $858 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,345.
Slate Quarries, 1 ; value of Slate quarried, $800; cap., $200; hands emp., 2.
Lead, establishments for melting and preparing, 1 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; bands emp., 3.
Freighting Stone, &c., Sloops and other vessels employed in, 15; ton­ nage, 715 ; value of Sloops, $18,500 ; receipts for Freight, $25,000 ; hands emp., 60.
Freighting Fish to market, Veasels employed, 2 ; tonnage, 20 ; value of Veasels, $500 ; hands emp., 5.
Smelt and other fish seined for market, tons, 20 ; value, $3,000 ; other fish, lbs., 4,000 ; value, $320 ; cap., $100 ; bands emp., 6.


RANDOLPH.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; nerspapers printed, (Transcript and Advertiser,) .1; issued weekly ; gross value of newspaper, $950 ; cap., $200 ; value of all other Printing, $800 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 2.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$100 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 1,500 ; value, $480 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	457
NOBl'OLK.  Co.	RANDOLPH.

Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; number m'd, 15; value, $600 ; value of stock used, $800 ; cap., $100 ; bands emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs and other vehicles, establi!hments for the m. of, 1; number m'd, 11; value, $1,200 ;  value of stock used, $600 ; cap., $800 ; bands emp.,  2.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,500 ; value of clothing m'd, $9,500 ; cap., $2,500; m. emp., 7 ; £ emp:, 5.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; Soft Soap m'd, bbls., 240; value, $860; cap., $500; bands emp.,  1.
Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 6 ; value, $8,500 ; value of materials used, $7,000 ; bands emp., 4.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of work done,
$4,000; cap., $600; bands emp., 7,
Tin Ware Manufactories,  1 ; value of stock used, $1,075;  value of Tin
Ware m'd, $1,585;  cap., $600;  bands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 875,905 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 117,810 ; gross value of stock used, $1,055,858; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,585,897 ; cap.,$288,375 ; m. emp., 1,789; f. emp., 248. Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for  m. of,  1; value of stock used,
$400 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 8.
Coffins and Burial Cases, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $850 ;
Coffins made,  118;  value, $1,000; cap., $100;  bands emp.,  2.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $10,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 9.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 2,000; value, $1,000;  cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords,  2,019 ; value, $8,751;
cap., $800 ; hands emp., 65.
Farms, 86 ; acres, 10,799 ; value, including Buildif\:o,S, $1,883,850; acres improved, 2,844 ; persons emp., 61.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,098. Unimprovable Land, acres, 158. Woodland, acres, 8,699 ; value, $110,970.
Indian Corn, acres, 53 ; bush., 850 ; value, $755.
Rye, acres, 41; bush., 102;  value, $153.
Barley, acres, 8f ; bush., 51; value, $102.
Potatoes, acres, 121 ; bush., 6,054 ; value, $5,560.60.
Cabbage, acres, 21; value, $200.
Cranberries, acres, 91; bush., 145;  value, $435.
118
4.58	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
ROXBURY.	NORFOLK. Co.

English Mowing, acres, 657 ; tons of English hay, 929 ; value, $18,580.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 265 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 261 ; value, $2,610.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 56 ; tons of Salt hay, 96; value, $1,152.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,172; value of apples, $750; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 660;  value  of  pears,  $300 ; value  of Nuts or Berries  cultivated  or gathered  for market,  $100.
$beep, 22 ; gro88 value, $272 ; Wool produced, lbs., 110 ; value,  $66.
Honies, 802 ; value, $30,200; Oxen over four years old, 22; value of oxen, $2,750 ; Milch Cows, 800; value of cows, $12,000 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (3 Bulls,)  $150 ; gallons  of  Milk sold, 6,680 ; value, $4,008 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 782 ; value, $292 ; lbe. of Cheese, 145 ; value, $29.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 282,000 ; value, $42,800. Pork, dre88ed, lbs., 107,850; value, $16,177.50. Veal, dressed, lbs., 18,250 ; value, $2,737.
Swine, 812; value, $4,680 ; value of Poultry sold, $565 ; value of Eggs sold, $332 ; lbs. of Honey, 75 ; value, $87.50.
Shoe Strings, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value m'd, $22,450; value of stock used, $11,800; cap., $2,000; m. emp., 10 ; £ emp., 28.
Hot House Grapes, lbs., 2,125; value, $2,125.
Hot House  Peaches, dozen, 20 ; value,  $240.


ROXBURY.

Woollen Carpeting, mills for m. of, 1; Scoured Wool consumed, lbs., 52,000 ; gross value of stock used, $20,800 ; Woollen Carpeting m'd, yds., 80,000.; value, $88,000 ; establishments for m. of all other Car­ peting, 2 ; value of stock used, $508,000 ; carpeting m'd, yds., 510,000 ; value, $750,000; cap., $223,000; m. emp., 119 ; f. emp.,
204.
Ladies' Silk Scarfs, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $3,000 ; scarfs m'd, 6,000 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 4.
Linen, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $30,000; linen
m'd, ·yds., 300,000 ; value,  $58,000;  cap., $15,000; m.  emp.,  12; £
emp., 40.
Belt Ribbons, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $19,798; quan­ tity and description of goods m'd, (Belt  Ribbons,) 56,000 ;   value,
$32,300 ; cap., $27,000 ; m. emp., 7; £ emp., 28.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	459
NORFOLK  Co.	RoXBURY.

Dress Trimmings, establishments  for m. of, 2 ; value of  stock  used,
$52,874 ; value of goods m'd, $85,625; cap., $73,000 ; m. emp., 20 ;
£ emp., 64.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, fumacee for m. of, · $ ;
value of stock used, $182,846 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 1,985 ; value, $298,750 ; cap., $177,000 ; bands emp., 145.
Cotton, Woollen and other machinery, establishments for m. of, 4 ; gross value of stock used, $118,700; value of Machinery m'd, $168,200 ; cap., $63,200 ; hands emp., 66.
Locomotives, Steam-Engines, and Boilers, establishments for m. of, 8 ;
·value of stock use $194,000 ; steam-engines and boilen built, 100 ;
value, $280,000 ; cap., $56,000 ; bands emp., 77.
Fire-Engines, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $7,600 ; fire-engines m'd, 8 ; value, $11,205 ; cap., $17,500 ; bands emp., 15. Copper  Manufactories,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $1,200 ; value m'd,
$2,500 ; cap., $800 ; bands emp., 2.
Starch Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $60,000 ; lbs. of starch m'd, 920,000 ; value, $75,000; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 9.
Chemical Preparations, establishments for m. of, 1 ; value of stock used,
$30,000 ; value of chemical preparations m'd, $50,000; cap.,$15,000 ;
bands emp., 6.
Paper Manufactories, 1; value of Paper Hangings m'd, $300,000 ; cap.,
$150,000 ; m. emp.1 90 ; f. emp., 30.
Card Paper, Cards and Bonnet Paper, establishments for m. of, I ; value of stock used, $30,000 ; cards m'd, 90,000,000 ; value, $50,000 ; cap.,
$80,000 ; m. emp., 10 ; £ emp., 10.
Organs, Melodeons and Harmoniums, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $25,000 ; organs m'd, 30 ; value, $60,000 ; cap.,$25,000 ; · bands emp., 40.
Piano-Forte Manufactories, 2; value of stock used, $68,500 ; piano­ fortes m'd, 525 ; value, $130,000 ; cap., $55,000 ; establishments for the m. of detached parts of piano-fortes, 1; value parts m'd, $33,000; value of stock used, $17,000 ; cap.1$4,000 ; other Musical Instrument mannfactories, 1; value of stock used, $7,500 ; reed instruments m'd, 5 ; value, $15,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; bands emp., 66.
Printing  and  Newspaper  Establishments,  2 ;  value  of  stock  used,
$17,100 ; newspapers printed, (Norfolk County Journal and Roxbury City Gazette,) 2 ; issued weekly ; value, $7,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; all other printing done, $4,000 ; cap., $3,500 ; m. emp., 18.
Book-Publishing Establishments, 1; books published, 4,400 ; value,
$24,000 ; cap., $10,000; m. emp., 1.
460	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
ROXBURY.	NORFOLK   Co.

Clock Manufactories,  1; value of  stock  used, $4,000 ; clocks m'd, 632;
value,  $25,764 ; cap.;$40,000 ; m. emp., 86.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 4 ; value of stock used,
$2,260 ;  daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken,  29,400 ; value,
$9,740 ; cap., $4,500 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 1.
Chronometers, Watches, Gold and Silver Ware, and Jewelry, establish­ ments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; watches m'd, 2,217 ; value, $87,046 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 42 ; £ emp., 28.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 5 ; number of each m'd, 800 trunks, 44 harnesses ; value, $7,615 ; value of stock used, $4,140 ; cap., $2,750 ; bands emp., 10.
Fur  Goods, including  Leather   Gloves  and  Mittens, establishments   for
m.  of,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $1,000 ; articles  m'd, 230 ; value,
$1,300 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 1.
Cordaaee Manufactories, 5 ; value of stock used, $1,140,000 ; value of cordage m'd, $1,482,900 ; cap., $500,525; bands emp., 898.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagorui, Sleighs and other vehicle.!!, establishments for m. of, 10; number of each m'd, 148 ;.value, $45,375; value of stock used, $14,600 ; cap., $38,225; hands emp., 84.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $100; wheels m'd, 52 ; value, $325 ; cap., $600; bands emp., 1.
Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; lbs. of confectionery made, 2,500 ; value, $1,800 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 10 ; value of stock used, $85,800 ; value of clothing m'd, $55,900 ; cap., $12,975 ; m; emp., 18; £ emp., 26.
·Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for m. of, 2; value of stock used, $3,500 ; articles m'd, 250 ; value, $8,500 ; cap., $5,500; hands emp., 7.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $40,000; lbs. Tallow Candles made, 300,000; value, $49,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Soap, establishments, for m. of, 4; value of stock used, $102,500 ; bbls. of Soft Soap m'd, 225 ; value, $800 ; lbs. of Hard Soap m'd, 516,000 ; value, $67,000 ; value all other soaps m'd, $45,240 ; cap., $28,800 ; bands emp., 18.
Kerosene or refined Petroleum, establishments for m. of, I ; crude Petroleum used, bbls., 7,000 ; value, $70,000 ; gallons Lubricating Oil, 186,680 ; value, $140,00i; cap., $60,000 ; bands emp., 20.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	461


NORFOLK  Co.	ROXBURY.


Master Builders, io; Buildings erected, 25 ; value, $878,000 ; value of materials used, $258,700; hands emp., 110.
Blacksmith  Shops, 21; value of stock used, $26,847; value of work done,
$76,444 ; cap., $21,100 ; hands emp., 60.
Cabinet Manufactories, 4 ; value of stock used, $4,200 ; value of Chairs and Cabinet Ware m'd, $12,400 ; cap., $8,700 ; hands emp., 15.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 8 ; value of stock used, $8,850; value of tin ware m'd, $20,700 ; cap., $9,700; hands emp., 12.
White Lead and other Paints, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $286,477; lbs. of White Lead m'd, 2,087,168; value, $375,690 ; cap., $204,000 ; hands emp., 25.
Drugs, Medicines, and Dyestuffs, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $125,800; value of drugs, medicines,  and dyestuffs  m'd,
$163,800; cap., $15,450; m. emp., 18; f. emp., 5.
Varnisb, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $50,000 ; gal­
lons of varnish m'd, 30,000;  cap., $15,000 ; bands emp., 2.
Tanning  and  Currying   Establishments,  12 ;  value  of   stock    used,
$545,044 ; Hides tanned, 289,008 ; bides tanned and curried, 868,477;  value of  Leather  tanned  and curried, $690,051 ; cap.,
$346,000 ; hands emp., 171.
Patent and Enamelled Leather, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock  used, $158,274; value  of patent  and  enamelled  leather m'd,
$204,215 ; cap., $38,500 ; hands emp., 58.
Boots, pairs of allkinds m'd, 562 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds  m'd,  110 ;
gross  value of stock  used,  $2,480 ; value of  boots  and shoes m'd,
$5,330 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 14.
Engine and other Hose, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$23,465 ; feet of engine hose m'd, leather, 9,566 ; rubber, 12,000 ; value, $31,715 ; cap., $20,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Snuif, Tobacco, and  Cigars  m'd, value, $11,840 ; value of stock used,
$4,045; cap., $2,945 ; m. emp., 9.
Blocks  and  Pumps, establi!hments  for m. of, 1; value of stock  used,
$150; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $300; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., I.
Coffins  and  Burial  Cases,  manufactories  of,  2 ; value  of  stock used,
$2,200 ; coffins made, 700; value, $5,500; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 3.
Planing Mills and Establishments for m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 2 ; value of stock used, $600 ; value of all other work done, $6,200 ; cap.,  $10,500 ; hands emp., 7.









...
462	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
RoXBURT,	NouoLK Co.

.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $17,178 ; value of wooden boxes made, $27,168 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 12.
Fireworks, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value fireworks m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., L
Friction   Matches,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1 ;  value  of  stock  used,
$80,000 ;  gross of   matches  m'd,  24,000 ;  value,  $72,000 ; cap.,
$50,000 ; m. emp., 40 ; f. emp., 50.
India  Rubber  Goods, establishments  for m. of, 1; value of  stock used,
$400,000 ; value of goods m'd, $600,000 ; cap., $450,000 ; m. emp., 100.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $81,000 ; value of  gas  m'd,  $70,000 ; cap.,  $175,000 ; bands emp., 19.
\	Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved, 500 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $500; bands emp., 1.
Bakeries,  11;  value of stock used, $158,285 ; value  of  Bread m'd,
$258,720 ; cap., $67,800 ; bands emp., 72.
Breweries, 8 ; value of stock used, $888,725; bbls of beer m'd, 74,800 ; value, $568,250 ; cap., $218,600 ; bands emp., 86.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 1; tonnage, 105 ; value, $8,500 ; amount received for freight, $7,000 ; bands emp., 6.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 4; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $21,025; cap., $2,800 ; l!,ands emp., 84.
Farms,  20 ; acres,  486; value, including  Buildings,  $878,500 ; acres
improved, 856 ; persons emp., 48. Unimproved Land, acres, 78.
Indian Com, acres, 2 ; bush., 110 ; value, $165.
Potatoes, acres, 27 ; bush., 2,700 ; value, $2,160.
Cabbage, acres, 5 ; value, $275.
Market  Gardening, acres, 84!; value of products, $22,850.
English   Mowing,  acres,  822 ;  tons   of  English  bay,  524 ; value,
$16,705.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 154!; tons of salt bay, 279 ; value, $4,480. Apple-trees cultivated  for their fruit, 4,542 ; value of  apples, $10,852 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,771;  value of pears, $18,278  ;
all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,285 ; value, $6,875; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $8,000.
Merino Sheep, 1; all other kinds of sheep, 2 ; value, $80.
Horses, 1,868; value, $286,460 ; Oxen over four years old,	; value,
$425; Milch  Cows; 276 ; Heifers,  9 ; value  of  cows  and heifers,
$21,210 ; gallons of Milk sold, 19,000 ; value, $4,750.
Beef, lbs. dressed, 80,000 ; value, $8,800.
18.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	463
NoRPOLX   Co.	SRA.RON.

Vea1, lbs. dreeeed, 86,000 ; value, $2,880.
Swine, 271 ; value, $6,806; Talue of Eggs sold, $820.
Hoee Carriages, &c., establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd, $4,500 ; value of stock, $1,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Vmegar, establishments for m. of, 2; value m'd, $14,000; value of stock, $8,800 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Bone  Dust, &c., establishments  for  m. of,  2 ; value  m'd,  $400,000 ;
. value of stock, $220,000 ; cap., $180,000 ; m. emp., 70.
Silk and Lace Bonnete, establishments for m. of, 8; value m'd, $6,150 ; value of stock, $4,000;  cap., $2,400;  £ emp., 9•
.Artificial Teeth, establishments for m. of, 8; value m'd, $8,400 ; value of stock, $8,900 ; cap., $4,050; m. emp., 7.
Refrigerators, establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd, $2,800; value of stock, $1,100 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Stucco Work, establiahments for m. of, l ; value m'd, $1,000 ; value of stock, $100; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.
Yeast, establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd, $10,000 ; value of stock,
$4,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Iron  Bridges,  Room, &c.,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1; value   m'd,
$25,000 ; value of stock, $12,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 40.
Calorie Engines, establiahments for m. of, 1; value m'd, $20,800; value of stock, $8,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 12.
Machine Knives, establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd, $5,000 ; value of stock, $2,500 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Tallow, establishments for m. of; 2 ; value m'd, $68,000; value of stock,
$58,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Oakum, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value m'd, $70,000 ; value of stock, $50,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 15.
Carvings, establishments  for  m. of, 1; value  m'd,  $1,200;  value of
stock, $800 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1.
Croquet Balls, &c., establishments for m. of; 1; value m'd, $5,000 ; value of stock, $1,000;  cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1.
Wood Turnings, establishments for m. of, 1; value m'd, $5,000 ; value of stock, $800 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 2.


SHARON.
Cotton Mills, 1; Flax Yam consumed, lbs., 121,528 ; gross value of stock used, $70,489; ·yards  Canvas Cloth m'd, 69,470; m. emp., 8 ;
£ emp., 14.
464	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
SHARON.	NORFOLK Co.


Cutlery, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; yalue of stock used, $22,000 ; articles m'd, 30,000 dozen Shoe and Butcher Knives ; 1,500 dozen Trowels ; value, $70,000;  cap. $25,000;  hands emp., 70.
Blacksmith's Shops, l ; value·of  stock used, $750; value of work done,
$2,280 ; cap., $200 ; hands, 3.
Boots, pairs m'd, 88,847 ; value of stock used, $98,971 ; value of Boots and Shoes m'd, $149,636 ; cap., $17,300 ; m. emp., 71 ; f. emp., 8. Coffins and Burial Cases, manufactories · of, 1 ; value of  stock used,
$200; coffins m'd, 25; value, $300 ; cap., $300; hands emp., l.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1 ; tons preserved, 100; value, $400;  cap., $200;  hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 2 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  265,000 ; value,
$5,000 ; Shingles prepared for market, $45,000 ; value, $1,400 ; cap.,
$500 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,090; value, $12,360 ; cap., $8,090 ; hands emp., 68.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 12,600 ; value, $1,575 ; cap., $252 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 158 ; acr 11,108; value, including Buildings, $832,102 ; acres
improved, 1,558; hands emp., 276. Unimproved Land, acres, 3,001.
Unimprovable  Land, acres,  135. Woodland,  acres, 5,891;  value,  $112,414.
Indian Com, acres, 198; bush., 5,045; value, $5,450. Rye, acres, 33 ; bush., 382 ; value, $382.
Barley, acres, 18; bush., 230 ; value, $845. Millet, acres, l ; bush., 10 ; value,  $12.
Potatoes, acres, 105; bush., 5,805 ; value, $2,907. Turnips, acres, 5 ; bush., 800 ; value, $820.
Onions, acres, 1; bush., 200 ; value, $200. Carrots, l; bush., 150;  value, $35.
Cabbage, acres, 5 ; value, $1,000. Winter Squash, j; value, $160.
Cranberries, acres, 20 ; bush., 550 ; value, $1,650.
English Mowing, acres, 1,240 ; tons  English hay, 790 ; value, $19,750.
Wet Meadow or·Swale mown, acres, 523; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 450 ; value, $5,460.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,100; value of apples, $1,650 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 250 ; value of pears, $50.
Sheep, 13 ; value, $78 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 45; value, $27.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS .	465
NORFOLK   Co.	STOUGHTON.

Horses, 148 ; value, $11,228 ; Asses and Mules,  1; value,  $25;  Oxen over four  years old,   44 ; Steers  under   four   years  old,  2 ; value · of oxen and Ateers, $3,675; Milch Cows, 366;  Heifers,  33; value of co and  heifers,  $17,880 ; value of Neat  Stock not embraced  above, (4 Bulls,) $100; gallons of Milk  sold,  24,000 ; value, $2,880 ;  Butter, lbs., 14,650 ; value, $4,895 ; Cheese, lbs., 1,200; value, $240.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 9,000 ; value, $1,080.
Veal, dressed, Jbs., 18,750 ; value, $3,000.
Swine, 153 ; value, $1,884 ; value of Poultry sold, $600 ; value of Eggs sold, $450; Honey, lbs., 50 ; value, $15; White Beans, bush., ' 100 ; value, $850.
Hoops m'd, 125,000 ; value, $3,750 ; m. emp.,.20.
Ship Timber prepared for market, tons, 80 ; value, $210 ; m. emp., 2.


STOUGHTON.
Cotton Mills, 1; Spindles,  320 ;  Cotton  consumed, lbs., 10,000 ; value of  stock used, $5,000 ; Yam m'd and not made into clotb, 1"8., 8,000 ;
value, $7,ooo-; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 5.
Woollen Mills, 2 ; sets Woollen Machinery, 4; Scoured Wool con­ sumed, lbs., 115,000 ; value of stock used, $90,000; Woollen Yam m'd and not made into eloth, lbs., 20,000 ; value, $25,000 ; all other woollen goods m'd, $150,000; cap,$42,000 ; m. emp., 46; f. emp., 64. Printing and Jl{ewspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $900 ; Newspapers printed, (Stoughton Sentinel,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value of newspapers and periodicals, $1,400; value of Book printing done, $100; value of all other printing done, $700 ; cap., $1,000 ; m.
emp., 2; f. emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; number m'd, 41; value, $9,4.75 ;  value of  stock used, $3,500; cap., $2,300 ; hand3 emp., 8.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock l!Sed, $500 ; artieles m'd, 4 Monuments, 75 Gravestones ; t'alue, $2,800 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Soap, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $150 ; bbls.
Soft Soap m'd, 300;  value, $1,200 ; cap., $300;  hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 5 ; value, $6,500 ; value of the	• materials used, $8,800 ; hands emp., 5.
Blacksmith's Shops, 3; value of stock used, $1,700 ;_ value. o( work done, $6,700 ; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 8.
59
466	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
ST01iGBTON.	• NORFOLK  Co.

Currying  Establishmenta,  2 ;  value  of   stock  used,  $84,000 ; cap.,
•  $17,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 841,691 ; Shoes, pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd, 888 ; value  of  stock  used  in  the  manufacture  of  boots  and   shoes,
$888,673 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,264,107 ; cap., $150,000 ; m. emp., 964 ;  £ emp., 184.	·
Last  and  S,hoe  Peg  Manufactories,   1; value  of' st.ock  used,  $1,200 ;
lasts m'd, 12,000 ; value, $7,200 ; cap., $2,0,00 ; hands ell)p., 8.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manuftories of, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; coffins made, 95 ; value, s1;600 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons preserved, 600 ; value, $700 ; cap., $200.
Saw  Mills,  1; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  75,000 ; value,
$1,500 ; number of Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves pre­ pared for market, 50,000 ; value, $175 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2. Firewood and Bark prepared for market, co!'Qs, 1,610 ; value, '"$7,245;
cap., $2,800 ; hands emp.,.16.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 5,600 ; value, $1,120 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Farms, 99 ; acres, 5,184 ; value, including  Buildings,  sas8,095 ; acres
improved, 4,884 ; persons emp., 200:	. Unimproved Land, acres, 200.
Unimprovable  Land, acres,  100. Woodland,  acres,  5,805;  value, $145,125.
Indian Com, acres, 65; bush., l,95 value, $8,500.
Rye, acres, 10 ; bush., 112 ; value, $220. Barley, acres, 7 ; bush., 82 ; value, $128.
Potatoes, acres, 159 ; bush., 9,540 ; value, $9,540. Cranberries, acres, 2!; bush., 41 ; value, $164.
English Mowing, acres, 824 ; tons English hay, 882 ; value, $26,460.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 88G ; tons of wet meadow or sale hay, 282 ; \"alue,  $4,230.
Ap1;1le-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,378;  value of  apples,  $977•
.Horses, 286 ; vulue, $28,880; Oxen over four years old, 44 ;  value,
$4,100 ; Milch Cows, 356 ; Heifers, 21; value of cows and heifers,
$18,080 ; galls. of Milk sold, 51,520 ; value, $12,880 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,017 ; value, $1,700 ; lbs. of Cheese sold, 8,50<:JII value, $700•
• 'Beef, dressed, lbs., 10,608 ; value, $2,427. Pork, dressed, lbs., 69,849 ; value, $12,572. Veal, drCSAed, lbs., 14,960 ; value, $2,883.
:Swine, 151; Yalue, $2,817 ; value of Poultry sold, $596 ; value of Eggs
.sold, $1i842.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	467
NORFOLK   Co.	WALPOLE•
•
WALPOLE.
Cotton Mills, 3; Spindles, 1,670 ; Cotton consumed, lbs., 47,586 ; gross value of  stock  used, $86,294 ; lbs. of  Xarn m'd  and  not  made  into
cloth, 16,000 ; gross value, $22,400 ; Cotton Thread ·m'd, lbs., 24,000 ; value, $18,000 ; cap., $22,900 ; m. emp., 18 ; f. emp., 11. .
Woollen :tlills, 1; sets Woollen Machinery, 3 ; pounds of Scoured Wool consumed, 45,000 ; gross value of stock used, $45,000 ; pounds of  Woollen  Yam .m'd  and  not .made  into  cloth,  83,000 ; value,
$62,000 ; cap., $30,000 ; m. emp., 14; f. emp., 5.
Forges, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; tons of Bar Iron, Anchors, Chain Cables, and other articles of wrought iron m'd, 20 ; value,'$1,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 5.	·
Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1;  value of stock    used,
$8,200 ; tons  <1f hollow  ware and  other  castings  m'd, 80;  value,
$4,800 ,, cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.	•
Machine and Hand Cards, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock  used,  $36,000 ;  feet  of  machine  cards  m'd,  22,576; value,
$47,423; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 2.
Hoop  Skirts, establishments  for  the  m. of,  1;  value  of  stock used,
$75,000 ; hoop skirts m'd, 90,000 ; value, $110,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 3; f. emp., 50.
Paper   Manufaetories,  3 ;  tons   of  stock   consumed,  1,274 ; value,
$8,366,568 ; jqns of Wrappig Paper m'd; 719 ; value, $195,348.59 ; tons Board Paper m'd, 113; "·alue, $16,947 ; cap.,$93,000 ; m. emp., 46 ; f. emp., 11.
Cordage Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $10,000; Linen Twine for fish lfues, value, $15,053'; cap., $2,000; m. emp., 6 ; f. emp., 6. Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used,.$5,000 ; value ff work done,
$7,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Boots, pain of all kinds m'd, 25,000 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'.d, 2,000 ; gross value of stock used, f 28,747 ; value of  boots and shoes m'd, $43,117 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 100.
Saw MiUs, 3 ; feet  of  Lumber  pr:pared  for  market,  260,000 ; value,
$4,680 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 620 ; value,  $3,720; cap., $800 ;  hands  emp., 4.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 8,000 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Farms, 171; acres, 8,910 ; value, including Buildings, .$462,185 ; acres. improved, 6,040 ; persons emp., 190.
Unimproved  Land, acres,  1,020.
4.68	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
WALPOLE.	NORFOLK  Co.

Woodland, acres, 1,850 ; value, $7,400.
Indian Corn, acres, 154 ; bush., 4,620 ; value, $4,620. Wheat, acres, 1 ; bush., 12 ; value,  $27.
Rye, acres, 21 ; bush., 241 ; value, $482. Barley, acres, 30 ; bush., 400; 'value, $500. Oats, acres, 36 ; bush., 845 ; value, $845. Potatoes, acres, 105 ; bush., 5,800 ; value, $64. Cranberries, acres, 20 ; bush., 5 ; value, $20.
English Mowing, acres, 1,106 ; tons·of English hay, 950; value, $29,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 591; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 385 ; value, $5,775.
Apple-trees· cultivated for their fruit, 6,135 ; value of apples, $1,534 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 431; value of pears, $224 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,200 ; value of the fruit, $300 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for 111arket, $500.
Sheep, 49 ; value, $145; lbs. of Wool produced, 12 ; value, $10. Horses, 267 ; value, $19,137 ; Oxen over four years old, 56 ; Steers
·under four years old, 12 ; value of oxen and steers, $5,255 ; "Milch Cows, 503; Heifers, 8 ; value of cows and heifers, $18,627 ; TwO-: year olds, Yearlings, and Bulls, value, $1,377 ; gallons of ?tlilk sold, 71,000 ; value, $11,832; lbs. of  Butter sold, 11,100 ; value,  $3,330.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 55,000 ; value, $5,500. Pork, dressed, lbs., 31,100 ; value, $5,'184. Veal, dressed, lbs., 26,665 ; yalue, $3,319.
Swine, 134 ; value, $2,393; value of i:oultry sold,  $457 ;  value  of Eggs sold, $1,000 ; Honey, lbs., 600; value, $240 ; value of unenu­ merated .articles of Farm Produce, $250.
Springs and Axles, establishments for the.m. of, 1; Wagon Axles m'd, tons, 100; Wagon Springs m'd, tons, 80 ; value, $20,000 ;  stock used, $10,00 ; c.ap., $20,000;  m. emp., 20.
Railroad Waste cleansed, tons, 10; value, $2,500 ; stock used, $1,100; cap , $500; hands emp., 2.
Cotton Stock, establishments fbr the m. of, 1 ; pounds of stock con­ sumed, 109,015; gross value of tha.stock used, $36,405; value of the same m'd, $49,097 ; c.ap., $10,000 ; hands 15.•
Carpet Lining, establishments for the .m. of, 1 ; pounds of stock used, 40,000;  gross  value,  $4,400;  value  of  the  same  m'd,  $9,000;  cap.,
$10,000 ; hands emp., 14.
18.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	469
NoRPOLK Co.	WEST   ROXBURY.


WEST  ROXBURY.

Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; number of each m'd, 2'!; value, $1,644 ; value of siock used, $850; cap.,$2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Clothing,  establishments  for m. of,  2 ; value  of stock  used, $4,500 ;
vue of clothing m'd, $7,500 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 3; f. emp., 6.
Master Builders, 7 ; Buildings erected, 12 ; value, $50,100 ; value of
materials ued, $33,400 ; hands  emp., 45.
Blacksmith Shops, 7 ; value of stock used, $7,000 ; value of work done,
$19,000 ; cap., $5,100 ; hands emp., 16.	·
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $179,686 ;
Hides tanned and curried, 7,500 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 23.
Patent and Enamelled Leather, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $25,850 ; value of leather m'd, '83,800; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 20.	_.
J;ndia Rubber   Gestablishments  for  m. of, 1; value of  stock  used,
$30,000 ; value of  goods m'd, $50,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp.,,o ;
£ emp., 6.
Gas, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of gas m'd, $15,000; caP.., $78,000 ; hands emp., 4.	• Ice for market, establishments for the preservation  of, 2 ; tons of ice pre­
served, 13,000 ; value, $23,050 ; cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 34. Farms,  108 ; acres,  7,006 ; value,  including Buildings,  $5,684,610 ;
acres improved, 3,818 ; persons emp., 379.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 2,230.
Woodland, acres, 968 ; value, $28,890.
Indian ·Corn, acres, 138 ; bush., 5,520 ; value, $6,900.
Rye, acres, 70 ; bush., 2,100 ; value, $2,625.
All other Grain Crops, acres, 68; value,  $1,020.
Potatoes, acres, 186 ; bush., 18,600 ; value, $14,880.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 16 ; bush., 2,400 ; value, $1,680.
Onions, acres, 12 ; bush., 7,200 ; value, $3,6Qe. Carrots, acres, 6 ; bush., 1,200 ; val1,1e, $360. Cabbage,  acres,  17;   value,  $10,200.
Winter Squash, acres, 20 ; -ralue, $3,000.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 42 ; value, $5,250.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,793 ; tons  of  English  hay, 3,071;  value,
$61,420.
Wet· Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 215 ; tons of wet  meadow  or swale ·
hay, 232 ; value, $2,320.	•
470	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
WEY.HduTJI.	NORFOI.K   Co.

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,761 ; value of apples, $11,761 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 12,981; value of pears,  $19,471.
Saxony Sheep, 317 ; value, $3,393 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 2,639.
Horses, 671 ; value, $86,19'2 ; Oxen over  four years  old, 80 ; value  of oxen, $2,450 ; Milch Cows, 406 ; Heifers, 22 ; value of cows and heifers, $20,540 ; gallons of Milk sold, 73,892 ; value, $11,822.
Swine, 606 ; value, $6,536 ; value of Poultry sold, $38 ; value of Eggs sold, $100 ; lbs. of  Honey, 180 ; value, $48.	•


WEYMOUTH.
Rolling, Slitting and Nail Mills, 2 ; value of stock used, $190,000 ; machines  for the manufacture of Nails, 90 ; tons m'd, 2,600 ; value,
$338,000 ; cap., $1nO,OOO ; hands emp., 200.
Mechanics'   Tools,  gross  value   m'd   and  not   elsewhere   enumerated,
$1,700 ; value of stock used, $300.
Ditiierreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value ef stock used,
$600 ; number of daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 13,000; value  $1,800 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 3.
esses, establishments for m. of, 2 ; harnesses m'd, 15; value, $750; · value of  sq,ck used,  $325 ;  cap., $200 ; hands emp.,  4.
Master.Builders, 10 ; Buildings erected, 35 ; value, $12,000 ; value of materials used, $8,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,650 ; value of work done,
$8,600 ;.cap., $1,750 ; hands emp., 14.
Tin Ware lanufactories, 3 ; value of stock used, $1,300 ; value of tin ware m'd, $2,500 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Taiming and Currying Establishments, 1; vue of stock used, $16,000 ; Hides tanned, .5,800 ; hides tanned and curried,. 9,800 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $42,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 7. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 477,136 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 382,618; gross l'alue f stock used, $2,004,637 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $2,991,732 ; cap., $595,144 ; m. emp., 1,481; £ emp., 248. Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $100 ; coffins m'd, 100 ; value, $300 ; cap.,$200 ; hands emp., 2. Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 2; value of stock used, $16,000 ;
value of wooden boxes made, $24,000 ; cap., $11,000 ; m. emp., 14. Fireworks, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ;
value  of  fireworks  m'd,  $40,000 ;  cap., $5,000 ;  m. emp., .12 ; f.
ernp., 27.	•
186!>.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	471
NoRPOLK Co.	WEplOUTH.

Ice for marke establishments for the preservation of, 2 ; tons of ice preserved, 950; value, $8,000;  cap., Sl,800; hands emp.,  5.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $12,000; value of Bread m'd, $18,000 ;'
cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 7.	·
Mackerel and Cod FisherieBi number of vessels employed in, 1; ton­ nage, 50 ; mackerel taken, bbls., 800 ; value, $8,000 ; value of Salt consumed in the mackerel and cod fisheries, $200 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 9. .	·	·
Shell Fish taken, bush., 500 ; value, $850 ; hand emp., 10.
Alewives taken, 850,000; value, $900 ; hands cmp., 9.
Saw  Mills, 1; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, 175,000 ; value,
$2,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.	·
Firewood  prepared  for market,  corw, 1,576;  value,  $7,968 ; cap.,
$5,000 ; hands emp., 80.
Farms, 91; acres, 8,697 ; value, including Building!!, $817,288; acres
improved, 3,697; persons emp., 125. Unimproved Land, acres, 179. Woodland, acres, 8,562 ; value, $88,164.
Indian  Com, acres, 791; bush., 3,172 ; value, $8,965.
e, acres, 6; bush., 78 ; value, $156.
Barley, acres, 14i; bush., 282 ; value, $804.70.
Buckwheat, l; bush., 5 ; value, $2.
Potatoes, acres, 229 ; bush., 17,267 ; value, $21,583.
'lvnipe cultivated as field crop, acres, 9 ; bush., 702 ; value, $372.
Onions, acres, 10 ; bush  1,680;  value,  $8,780.
Carrots, acres, 5i; bush., 1,430 ; value, $429.
Cabbage, acres, 7l ; value, $900.
Wm'  ter  Squash, acres,l;value, $188.
Market Gardening, acres, 6 ; value of products, $700.
Beets and  other  esculent  vegetables, acres, Si; bush.,950; value, $868;
value of  Garden  Seeds prepared  for  market, $80.	·
Cranberries, acres, 2 ; bush., 60 ; value, $250.
English Mowing, acres, 1,096; to of English  hay,  1,173; value,
$35,190.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, aeres, 176l; tons o, wet meadow or swale hay, 150; value, $2,250.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 160l; tons of salt hay, 244! ; value, $4,401. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,325; value of apples, $8,894; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit,  841;  value  of pears, $1,651; all other trees cultivated  for their fruit, 470 ; value, $400 ; value of
Nut8 or Berries cultivated o gathered for market, $85.
472	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
WRENTHAM.	NORFOLK   Co.

Sheep, 110 ; value, $7?0 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 400 ; vale, $800.
Horses, 411 ; value, $43,090 ; Oxen  over  four years old,  16;  value of oxen, $1,500 ; Milch Cows, 413; Heifers, 25 ; value of cows and heifers, $23,891; gallons of Milk  sold, 24,086; value, $5,839 ; lbs. of  Butter sold, 1,833 ; value, $641.55.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 537,500 ; value, $53,750. Pork, dressed, lbs., 143,419 ; value, $28,683.80.
·Mutton, dressed, lbs., 11,000 ; value, $1;s20. Veal, dressed, lbs. 32,500; value; $3,900.
Swine, 514 ; value, $28,688.80 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,513 ;' value of Eggs sold, $1,272 ; lbs. of Honey, 419 ; value, $196 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 18; value, $10 ; value of unenumerated articles of Produce, $10,000.
Supei:phosphate  of  Lime,  establishments  for  the m. of,  1; valufl  m'd,
$75,000 ; value of stock used, $55,000; cap., $20,000; m. emp., 20. Granular 1,'uel Manufactories, 1; bush'. 1n'd, 20,000 ; value, $2,000 ;
cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.


•
WRENTHAM.

Shoddy, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $66,000; pounds of Shoddy m'd, 1,320,000 ; value, $158,400 ; cap., $9,000 ;
m. emp., 8.	•
Hosiery and Woollen Yam, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $80,000 ; Men's Hose m'd, doz., 500 ; value, $2,500 ; lbs. of. Yarn m'd, 30,000 ; value, $50,000 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 12 ; f. emp., 8.
Jewelry, establishments for the m. of, 3; value of stock used, $17,285 ; value of Gilt articles m'd, $47,100 ; cap., $24,287 ; m. emp., 44 ; f. emp., 14.
Boats, establishments for m. of, 4 ; value of materials used, $5,200 ; boats built, 152 ; value, $10,300 ; cap., $9,500 ; hands emp., 12.
Wagons, establisHments for the m. of, 1; number rn'd, 10 ; value, $400 ; value of stock used, $50; cap., $100; hands emp.,  I.
Soop, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; bbh. of Soft Soap m'd, 140; value, $560 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 1. Bla.:ksmith Shops, 6 ; value of stock used, $2,475 ; value of work done, ,
$6,850 ; cap., $7,15() ; hands emp., 8.
•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	473
NORFOLK  Co.	WRENTBAH.
Cabinet  Manufactories,  1i value  of stock  used,  $3,000 ·;   Chain and
Cabinet Ware m'd, value, $1,500 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 6.
Medicines, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ;
value of medicines m'd, $7,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 8.
Iloots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 80,680 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 5,700; gross value of stock used, $50,000 ; value of boots and shoes m'd,  $84,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 40.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for the m. of, 3 ; Yalue of stock used, $42,500 ; straw bonnets m'd, 101,435; value, $71,818 ; straw hats m'd, 9,400 ; value, $9,400; straw braid m'd, value, $453; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 56; f. emp., 75.
Coffin Trimmings,  establishments   for  the  m. of, 1; value  of  stock  used,
$5,000; value of coffin trimmings, $15,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 24.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $75 ; value of Wooden Boxes m'd, $150 ; cap., $150; m. emp., 1.
Farms, 818 ; acres, 21,810 ; value, including Buildings, $982,868; acres of land improved, 10,284 ; persons emp., 857.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,866.	•
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 1,5Q4.
Woodland,  acres,  6,181;  value, $111,405.
Indian Com, acres, 878; bush., 11,490 ; value, $17,285.
Wheat, acres, 4; bush., 36 ; value, $68.
Rye, acres, 98 ; bush., 1,205 ; value, $2,400. Barley, acres, 58 ; bush.; 1,066 ; value, $1,066. Oats, acres, 147 ; bush., 2,196; value, $2,196.
Millet, acres, 8 ; (used as fodder-8! tone;) value, $70.
Pota1'>es, acres, 281 ; bush., 17,674 ; value, $14,139.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 6 ; bush., 981; value, $253.
Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 100; value, $25.
Cranberries, acres, 140 ; bush., 1,257 ; value, $3,630.
English  Mowing,  acres, 2,886 ; tone  of  English  hay,  1,941: ; value,
. $48,600.	•
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale mown,  1,476;  tone wet  meadow or  swale  hay,
928 ; value,  $11,186.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 15,375 ; value of apples, $15,375 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 958 ; value of  pears, $479.
Merino Sheep, 82 ; all other kinds, 115; value of all sheep, $725; lbs. Merino Wool, 100 ; value, $50 ; lbs. other wool produced, 1,147 ; value, $194.
60
474	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
ABTNGTON,	PLuroUTR   Co.


Horees, 843; value,  $88,858;  Oxen  over  four  years  old,  147 ; Steers under four yea1'8 old, 55 ; value of oxen and steers, $12,410 ; Milch	•
Cows, 818; Heifers, 158 ; value of cows and  heifers,  $31,980 ;  Neat Stock not embraced above, value, $275; gallons of lfilk sold, 4,167 ; valuf'., $770 ; lbs. of Butter  sold,  21,486;  value,  $7,090 ; lbs. of Cheese, 631 ; value, $96.	·
Beef, dressed, lbs., 16,420 ; value, $2,105. Pork, dressed, lbs., 112,141 ; value, S18,7U. Veal, dressed, lbs., 48,466 ; value, $4,951.
Swine, 826 ; value, $6,549 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,189 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,286 ; lbs. of Honey, 453 ; value, $160 ; lbs of Bees­ wax, 10 ; value, $6; value of unenumerated articles of  Farm Produce, $1,175.
Roofing, establishments for the m. of, 1; bbls. m'd, 800 ; value, $2,400 ; value of  stock used, $1,800 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 2.
Felting Mill, 1; value of goods m'd, $36,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; m. emp.,
7 ; f. emp. 2.




P L '): M O U T H	C O U N T Y .


ABINGTON.
Tack and Brad ?tlanufactorics, 1; value of stock used, $28,100 ; t•ons of
. tacks and brads manufactured, 190 ; value, $89,000 ; cap., $23,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $700 ; newspape1'8 printed, (Abington Standard,) 1 ; issued weekly ; groes value, $500 ; value of  all other printing  done, $1,200 ; cap., $2,000 ;
m. emp., 2.
Daguerreian  and  Photographic  Establishments,  2;  value of  stock used,
$500 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 4,514; value,. $1,260 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs and other vehicles, establishments  for the m. of, 2 ; number m'd, 8 wagons, 1 sleigh ;
. value, $525 ; value of stock used, $160 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF HA.SSACHUSEITS.	475
PLYHOUTR   Co.	ABINGTON,

Confectionery, establishments for rn. of, 1; value of stock used, $3,890; lbs. of confectionery made, 16,950 ; value, $5,424 ; cap., $8,000; m. emp., 3.	.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 6 ; value of stock used, $8,150 ; value of clothing m'd, $15,450; cap., $5,300 ; m. emp., 9 ; £ emp., 12. Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of articles from, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value of Gravestones m'd, $580 ;
cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,250 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 600 ; value, $8,000 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 400,000 ; value, $2,400 ; cap., $3,600 ; hands emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shops, 9 ; value of. stock used, $2,500 ; value  of  ,vork done, $8,900 ; cap., $5,600 ; hands emp.,- 15.	·
Tin Ware Mannfactories, S·; value of stock used, $900 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,700 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Mills, 1; bush. of  grain ground, 80,000 ; ,·alue, $30,000 ; cap., S8,500 ; hands emp.;2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 224,971 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,287,218 ; grou value of stock used, $2,445,574 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $8,460,887 ; cap., $682,600 ; m. emp., 2,479 ; £ emp., 846. Blacking, establishments  for the  m. of, 1; value  of stock used, $500 ;
value of Blacking m'd, $1,500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Last and Shoe-peg Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $3,500 ; lasts m'd, pairs, 19,500 ; value, $14,200 ; cap., $5,000°; hands emp., 11.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kii1d.s, manufactories of, 8; value of stock uaed, $335; cofflwt made, 167; value, $1,100 ; cap., S800 ; hands emp., 8.
Boxes, establishmenta for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $7,350 ; value of wooden boxes made, Sll,800 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 8.	•  Razor Strops, manufaetories of, 1; value of atock used, $3,600 ; number
m'd, 10,800; value, $5,000 ; cap., $1,MO ; hands emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishmenta for preservation of, 2 ; tons of ·ice pre­ served, 650 ; value, $1,850 ; cap., $1,700 ; hands emp., 5.
Pickles and Preserves, establishments for m. of, I ; value of pickles and
preserves m'd, $1,800 ; cap., $400 ; bands emp , 2.
Bakeries, 1; value of  stock used, $1,500 ; value of  Bread m'd, $2,500  ;
cap.,  $400 ; hands  emp., 2.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of building stone quarried and prepared for market, $300 ; cap., $75 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 2,432,000; value,
$34,286 ; Shingles prepared for market, 795,000 ; value, $3,080 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 15.
476	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.

ABINGTON.	PLYMOUTH  Co.

Firewood and Bark prepared for market, -cords, 4,500 ; value, $28,048 ; hands emp., 50.
Fanns, 213; acres, 7,625 ; value, inclµding Buildings, $709,825 ; acres improved, 3,706 ; persons emp., 165.
Unimproved Land, acres, 625. Unimprovable Land, acres, 884. Woodland,  acres, 6,406 ; value, $281,525.
Indian Corn, acres, 128 ; bush., 4,305; value, $6,457. Wheat, acres, 7 ; bush., 77 ; value, $150.
Rye, acres, 11i; bush., 138 ; value, $207.
Barley, acres, 1; bush., 20 ; value,  $20.
Potatoes, acres, 265 ; bush.;25,092;  yalue, $25,000.
Turnips  cultivated  as a  field  crop,  acres,  7 ; bush.,  2,761;  value,
$2,070.
Onions, acres, t ; bush., 50 ; value, $100. Carrots, acres, 1l ; bush., 1,125 ; value, $450. Cabbage, acres, 5; vhlue, $1,184.
Winter Squash, acres, lJ ; value, $255.
Market Gardening, acres, 3 ; value of products, $1,825.
Beets  and  other  eeculent  vegetables,  acres,  2 ;  bush.,  720 ; value,
$860.
Tobacco, lbs., 80 ; value, $60.
Cranberries, acres, 1;.bush., 65 ; value, $400.
English   Mowing,  •acres,   1,525 ; torus   of  English   hay,   1,660 ; value,
$49,800.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 666; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 471 ; value, $5,652.
AJ>ple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 14,052; value of apples, $8,850 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,470 ; value of pears, $2,200 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 558; value of fruit, $375 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $700.
Sheep, 35 ; value, $350 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 175 ; value, $105.
Horses, 550 ; vll.lue, $55,000; Asses and Mules, l; value, $10; Oxen over four years old, 46 ; Steers under four years old, 2; value of oxen and steers, $8,100 ; Milch Cows; 621; Heifers, 39 ; value of cows and heifers, $81,830; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (29  Calve!!, 5 Bulls,)  $570 ; gallons  of Milk  sold,  65,382 ; value,
$15,115 ; lbs.of Butter sold, 4,700 ; value, $1,854 ; lbs. of Cheese, 2,900 ; value, $483.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 413,700; value, $47,267. Pork, dressed, lbs., 156,880 ; value, $27,110.
1865.]	INDUSTRY ON MASSACHUSETTS.	477
PLTilOUTH   Co,	BRIDGEWATER.

Mutton, dressed, lbs., 13,530 ;.value, $1,732. Veal, dressed, lbta., 42,425 ; value, $6,020.
Swine, . 542 ; value, $26,560 ; value of Poultry sold, $2,490 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,800 ; lbs. Honey, 180 ; value, $72 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 20 ; value, $10.
Grapes, bush., 200 ; value, $600.
Counters m'd, er,9,000 ; value of stock, $3,000 ; cap.,$1,000 ; hands
emp., 3.
Heels  m'd, pairs, 36,000 ; value  of  stock, $1,080 ; value of heels m'd,
$2,160 ; cap., $600 ; m. emp., 3; f. emp., 2.
Inner  Soles m'd, 24,000 ; value  of  stock,  $850 ; value  of  soles m'd,
$1,700 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 4.
Boot and Shoe Patterns, value, $700 ; value of stock used, $100 ; cap.,
$100 ; hands emp" 2.
Stoves, value, $900 ; value of stock, $500 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 2. Heel  Plates,  dozen, 23,000; Iron  consumed,  tons, 10 ; value  of stock,
$2,000 ; value of plates, $10,000 ; cap., $8,000 .I bands emp., 2.


BRIDGEWATER.
Rolling, Slitting, and Nail Mills, 2 ; value of stock used, $165;794; tons of Iron m'd, 1,863 ; value, $232,875 ; Machines for .the m. of Nails, 8 ; tons of Nails m'd, 45; value, $8,100 ; cap., $52,500 ; hands emp., 78.
Forges, 1; value of stock used, $406,068; Bar Iron, Anch(?rs, Chain Cables, avd  other  articles  of wrought  iron  m'd, tons, 1,765 ; value,
$649,275;  cap., $60,000 ; hands emp., 275.
HoJlow Ware   d Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces  for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $76,280 ; tons Hollow Ware and Castings, 859 ; value, $108,090 ; cap., $12,000 ; hands cmp., 63.
Cotton  Gins, establishments  for  the  m. of, 2 ;  value  of  stock  used,
$73,200 ; Cotton Gins m'd, 2,683; value, $170,000 ; cup., $100,000 ; bands emp., 8('.
Cotton, Woollen, und other Machinery, establishments for m. of, 1; gros value of stock used, $20,156 ; value of machinery m'd,. $95,202 ; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 100.
Metal Sheathing for vcsels, manufactories  of, 1; value  of stock  used,
$287,824 ; Yellow Metal for vessels m'd, tons, 564 ; value, $352,838 ; cap., $50,000 ; hands employed, 40.	•
t

478	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
BRIDGEWATER,	PLY:u:ouTn Co.

Brass Foundries, 1; value of stock used, $4,262; Boxes for machinery m'd; tons, 48 ; value, $27,807 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of atock consumed, 272 ; value, $21,450 ; lbs. Paper m'd, ·310,402; value, $40,852 ; cap., $85,000; m. emp., 9; t emp L	·
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock  used,
$500 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 7,400; talue, $1,825  ;
cap., $1,000 ; m.emp., 1; £ emp., 1.	·
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,000; value ot work  done,
$3,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufll,l!tories, 2 ; value of stock used, $325; value of  tin ware  m'd,  $550 ;  cap.,  $450;  hands  emp., 2.
Brick  Yards, 2; bricks  m'd, 2,600,000 ; value,  $rn,500 ; cap., $8,000 ;
hands emp., 85.	·
Coffins and Burial Cases, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; Coffins made, .50 ; value, $450 ; cap., $150; hands emp., I.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served, 800 ; value, $500 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw  Mills,  8 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  468,585 ; value,
$8,796 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, $155,000 ; value, $542 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Charceal m'd, bush., 31,440 ; value, $2,262 ; cap., $1,000 ;  hands emp., 4.
Farms, 205 ; acres, 12,267 ; value, including Buildings, $526,532; acres improved, 6,672 ; hands emp., 328.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 8,300.
unimprovable  Land,  acres, 50.
Woodland,  acres,  2,245 ;  value, $112,250.
Indian Com, acres, 240 ; bush., 8,398; value, $12,597.
Wheat, acres, 9 ; bush., 190 ; value, $427. Rye, acres, 32 ; bush., 415; value, $623. Barley, acres, 16;  bush., 316;  value, $895.
·Buckwheat,  acres,  2 ; bush., 28 ; value, $42.
Oats, acres, 116 ; bush., 8,018 ; value, $8,018. Potatoes, acres, 186 ; bush., 17,855 ; value, $13,390. Turnips, acres, IO ; bush., 2,995 ; value, $1,348.
Onions, acres, 1; bush., 400; value, $800.
Market Gardening, acres, 8; value of products, $1,200.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, &\:res, t ; bush., 497 ; value, $300.
Tobacco, acres, -I ; lbs., 500 ; value, $250.·
Cranberries, lcres, 5 ; bush., 250 ; value, $750.
1865.J	L DUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	479
PLnrouTH Co.	CARVER,
English Mowing, acres, 1,507 ;,tons Edt}ish hay, 1,192 ; value, $33,876.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 586; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  425 ;  value, $6,875.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 6,865 ; value of apples, $5,837 ;
Pear-trees' cultivated for their fruit, 458 ; value of pears, $814.
Sheep,  284 ;  value, $2,840;  lbs. of  WQOl  produced,  965 ; value,  $820.
Horses, 828;	$81,160 ; Asses and Mules, 1; Oxen over four years old, 110 , Steers under four years old, 41 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,805; }lilch Cows,  482 ;  Heifers,  102 ; value  of  cows  and heifers, $80,180; Neat Stock not embraced above, (7  Bulls,)
$400 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 18,865; value of Butter sold, $5,546. Beef, lbs. dressed, 516,785;  value, $60,017.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 210,736 ; value, $28,456. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 9,862 ; value, $1,688. Veal, dressed, lbs., 50,409 ; value, $7,812.
Swine, 429 ; value, $6,435 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,858 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,029.

.	.
CARVER.

Cotton  Mills,   1;  value  of   stock   C011Bumed,   $55,000 ;  Shoe  Stringi:,
Boot Laces, &e., m'd, value, $75,000; cap., $50,000 ; m. emp., 12 ;
£ emp., 80.
Hollow  Ware  and  Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces  for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $20,500 ; tons hollow ware ai;id other ca.,tings m'd, 438 ; value,  $48,800 ; cap., $80;800 ; hands emp. 51 ;
Blacksmith   Shops,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $800 ; ;,afue of  work done,
$400; cap., $850; hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments  for  the m. of, 2 ; value of stock  used, $2,400 ;
value of  wooden boxes m'd, $4,500;  cap., $2,000<;  m. emp., 8.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, 2,872,000 ; value,
$28,720 ; Shingles  prepared   for  market,  542,000 ;  value,  $2,168 ;•
cap., $700; hands emp., 12.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cord"., 2,260;  value,  $6,780 ;
cap., $3,890;  hands emp., 15.
Charcoal,  bush.  m'd, 2JOOO  ; value,  $120 ; cap., $90 ; hands  emp., I.
Farms, 161; acres, 8,244;  value, including Buildings, $185,017 ;  acres
improved, 822 ; pel'SODB emp., 161.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,047. Unimprovable land, acres, 1,666. Woodland, acres, 9,834;  value, $78,672.
Indian Corn,	127 ; bush., 2,586 ; value, $8,282.50.
•	•
480	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
DUXBURY•
PLYKOUTB   Co.
 	•	
Rye, acres, 70 ; bush., 410 ; ?llllut, $512.50.
Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 60; value, $60.
Oats, acres, 12i; bush., 287 ; value, $229.60.
Potatoes, acres, 66f ; bush., 4,784 ; value, $2,870.40.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 4 ; bush., 661 ; value, $830.50.
Carrots, ll ; bush., 868 ; value, $121.44.
Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $100.	I
Basket .Willow cultivated, acres, 2 ; value, $10.
Cranberries, acres, 105 ; bush., 862i; value,  $2,872.12.
English  Mowing,  acres,  488  ; tons  of  English  hay,  408f ;   value,
$10,218.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 891 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 376l ; value, $4,515.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,520 ; value of apples, $1,058 ; Pear-trees cultimtcd for their fruit, 87 ; value of  pears,  $50; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 15 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $475.
Sheep, 241 ; value, $723 ; lbs. Wool pQ>duced, 789 ; value, $443.40.
Horses, 112 ; value, $10,080 ; Asses and Mules, 1; Oxen over four years old, 61 ; Steers under four years old, 42 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,800 ; Milch Cows, 237 ; Heifers, 2ff ; value of cows and heifers, $11,185 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulls, 2 Colts, 41 Yearlings,)  $564 ; gallons  of Milk sold,  1,965; value,
$98.25;  lbs. of  Butter  sold, 2,334 ;  value,  $1,050.80•  .
Beef, dressed, lbe., 11,410; value, $1,255.10. Pork, dressed, lbs., 86,171; value, $6,530.70. Veal, dressed, lbs., 3,?00 ; value,  $462.50.
Swine, 75 ; value, $1,125 ; Poultry sold, value,  $405; Eggs  sold, value, $1,200.25 ; lbs. of Honey,  25;  value,  $10; lbs. of  Beeswax, G ; value, $8 ; vtuue of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, (Beans, &c.,) $550.
Stoves, ·Grates, and Willow Baskets, value, $14,000; value of stock used, $6,300 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 14•.


DUXBURY.

llechanics'  Tools  m'd,  and  not  elsewhere  enumerated, gross  value of,
$1,500 ; value of stock used, $400 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; number m'd, 14; value, $650; value of stock used, $860 ; cap., $500; hands emp., 2.
•
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS:	481
PLYMOUTH Co.	DUXBURY.

Ship  Yards, 1; value  of  materials  usC<t,- $4,000 ; vessels  launched, 2 ;	• amount of tonnage,  151 ; value,  $8;600 ;  cap., $600 ; hands  emp., 10.
Boats, establishments  for the m. of, 2 ; value of materials  used, $120 ;
.  Boats built,  3 ; value,  $370 ; cap., $225 ; hands  emp., 1.
Master Builders, 7 ; Buildings erected, 11; value, $10,335 ; value of materials used, $7,165 ; hands emp., 11.
Blacksmith  Sho,S, 4; .value  of  stock  used, $600 ; value of work  done,
$1,600 ; cap., $600 ; hands4lmp., 4.	•
Blocks  and  Pumps, establishments   for  m. of, 1; value  of  stock  used,
$100 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $300 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Coffins  and  Burial  Cases,  manufactories  of,  1;  value  of  stock used,
$184 ; coffins m'd, 57 ; vnlue, $334 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,336 ; value of wooden boxes made, $8,000 ; cap., $1,800; m. emp., 5.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 2 ; tons of ice preserved, 145;  value, $145; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 2.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 8 ; tonnage, 280 ; value of fish sold fresh  in market,  $86,488;  cap,,  $11,200;  hands  emp., 88.
Shell Fish taken, bush., 8,260 ; value, $2,608 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp.,
31.
Saw Mills,  4 ; feet  of lumber  prepared  for market,  90,000 ;  ·value,
$1,560 ; Shingles prepared for market, 100,000 ; value, $350 ; Box Boards, 850,000; value, $3,150 ; cap., $3,600 ; hands emp., 4.
Firewood prepared fur market, cords, 1,564 ; value, $4,933; hands emp.,
75.
Farms, 112 ; acres, 12,980; value, including Buildings, $705,425 ; acres improved, 1,786 ; persons emp., 128.
Unimproved Land, acre, 11,194. Woodland, acres, 5,927i ; value, $130,457.
Indian Com, acres, 143i; bush., 4,973 ; value,  $6,529.50.
Wheat, acres, 4i; bush., 451; value, $91.	•
Rye, acres, 45 ; bush., 492 ; value, $886. Barley, acres, f ; bush., 16 ; value, $32. · Oats, acres, 18f ; bush., 404 ; value, $404.
Potatoes, acres, 75 ; bush., 5,312 ; value, $3,889.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  16 ;  bush.,  3,266 ; value,
$1,732.
Onions, acres, t ; bush., 110 ; value, $220. Carrots, acres, 3 ; bush., 1,822 ; value,  $514.
61	•


Digitized by Google
•
•
482	STATISTICS   OF  THE	(1866• .
EAST   BRIDGEWATER,	PLT11oum Co.

Cabbage, acres, l ; value, $20.'
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, l; bush., 26 ; value, $25.
Cranbemes, acres, 5 ; bush., 67 ; value, $175.·
English  Mowing,  acres,  6471- ;  tons  of   English  bay,  592;  value,
$11,840.	.
:Wet Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, SU;  toDS of  wet meadow or   swale
hay, 71 ; value, $737.
Salt Mareh'mown, acres, 496; toDS of ealt bay, 452 ; value, $3,724. Apple-trees  cultivated   for their  fruit,  9,908 ; value  of  apples,   $1,293  ;
Pear-trees  cultivated  for their  fruit, 649 ; value of  peare, $70 ; value
of  Bernes  cultivated  or gathered  for market,  $25.
Sheep,  111;  groee  value,  $666 ;  lbs. of  Wool   produced,  555 ; value,
$277.50.
Horses, 129 ; value, $8,585 ; Oxen over four years old, 46 ; Steers under four yeare old, 37 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,430 ; Milch C-Ows, 271 ; Heifers, 57 ; value of .cows and heifers, $9,145; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (7 Bulle,) $280 ; gallone of Milk sold, 5,230 ; value, $1,046; lbs.of Butter eold, 6,780 ; value, $2,412.
Beef, dreeBed, lbs., 358,040 ; value, $42,964.80. Pork, dreeeed, lbs., 98,898 ; value, $18,790.62. Mutton, dreeeed, lbs., 7,400 ; value, $1,224.
Veal,  d.reeeed,  lbs.,  87,500 ; value, $4,975.
Swine, 107 ; value, $1,605 ; value of Poultry eold, $1,540.65 ; value of Egge eold, $3,385.85 ; lbs. of Ho1;1ey, 80 ; value, $16; lbs. of Beeswax, 8;  value, $1.50.
Lobsters, 89,400 ; value, $1,894 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 4.


EAST BRIDGEWATER.

ShoddJ, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $10,680 ; lbs. of Shoddy m'd, 71,250 ; value, $15,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp.,
8 ; f. emp., 8.
Rolling, Slitting and Nail Mitts, 2 ; value of stock used, $28,000 ; tons of iron m'd and not made into nails, 200 ; value, $8,000 ; machines for the m. of nails, 20 ; tons of nails m'd, 500 ; value, $25,000 ; cap.,
$24,000 ; hands emp., So.
Forges, 2 ; value of stock used, $28,000 ; tons of Bar Iron m'd, 800 ; value, $82,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 9.
C-Otton  Gins, establishments for m. of, 1; value of  stock used, $12,000 ;
.
cotton gins m'd, 889 ; value, $28,000 ; cap., $16,000 ; hands emp., 22.
•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACIIUSETTS.	483
PLYJ(OUTB Co.	E.UI' BRIDGEWATER.
Mechanics' Tools m'd and not elsewhere enumerated, value, $650 ; value of etock used, $200; cap., $200 ; handa emp., 1.
Tack and Brad Manufactories, 2; value of etock used, $140,782 ; tons of tacks and brad& m'd, 815 ; value, $264,406; cap., $88,400 ; hands emp., 114.
Clothing, establishments for	of,  1;  value ·of   etock  ueed,  $950 ; ·
value of  clothing m'd, $1,800 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp.,  1; £ emp.,  8.
Marble and other kinda of  Stone, establishments for m. of  articles  from,
1; value of stock ueed, $800 ; value of Graveetones.m'd, $560 ; cap.,
$150; handa emp., 1.
Blacksm1lh Shops, 8 ; value of etock ueed, $2,500 ; value of work done,
•	$7,500 ; cap., $1,150;  handa emp., 7•
Tin Ware  Manufactories,  1; value of stock used, $250 ; value  of tin
ware m'd, $460; cap., $200; handa emp., 1.	.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 11,24-8 ; Shoes, paire of all kinda m'd, 277,774; gross value of etock used, $444,427 ; value of  boots  and shoes m'd, $555,208 ; cap., $4-8,600 ; m. emp., 299 ; £ emp., 97.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 900,000 ; value, $6,800 ; cap.,. $8,000 ;
handa emp., 10.
Snuff, Tobecoo  and. Cigars  m'd,  value,  $5,800 ; value  of  stock used,
•	$3,825 ; cap., $800; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 8.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 2; value of stock used, $7,700 ; value of wooden boxes made, $12,000 ; cap., $8,900 ; m. emp., 11.
Ice for market, establishments  for  pieservation  of,  1; tons preserved,
200 ; value, $560 ; cap., $100; hands emp., 1.
Bakeries,   1;  value  of  stock  used, · $18,600 ;  value  of  Bread   m'd,
$17,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; handa emp., 4.
oaw  Mills, 6 ; feet of lumber  prepared ·for market,  1,130,000 ; value,
$17,200;  Shingles, 410,000;  value, $1,355;  value  of  Ship Timber,
$1,000;  cap., $6,100;  handa  emp., 34.
Firewood, number of corde prepared  for market, 2,250;  value, $10,687 ;
bands emp., 40.	·
Farms, 874; acres, 8,850 ; value, including Buildings, $881,931; acres of land improved, 7,595; persons emp., 571.
Unimproved Land, acree, 8,660. Unirnprovable Land, acres, 185. Woodland, acres, 1,505; value, $75,250.
Indian Corn, acres, 120 ; bush., 8,682 ; value, $6,598.
Rye, acres, 251 ; bush., 450 ; value, $1,012.
Barley, acres, iii; bush., 100; value, $150.
Buckwheat, acres, ll ; bush., 19 ; value, $80.
484	S'l'ATIS'.flCS  OF THE	(1865.
HALIFAX.	•	PLYHOUTB Co.

Oats, acres, 15; bush., 345 ; value, $414.
Potatoes, acres, 182!; bush., 10,950 ; value, $5,475.
Tps cultivated as a field crop,	res, 5 ; bush., 1,000 ; value, $400. Cabbage, acres, 2!; value, $325.
Garden Seeds, acres, 2 ; value, $550. Cranberries, acres, 4 ; bush ., 80; value, $100.
English Mowing, acres, 731; tons English hay, 548; value,  $10,960.
Wet .Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 475 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 356 ; value, $3,560.
Apple-trees cultivated fur their fruit, 12,281; value of apples, $3,437 ; Pear-trees  cultivated  for  their fruit, 2,384: ; Yalue  of pears, $575;
all  other  trees  cultivated  for  their fruit, 308;  value,  $81; value of	• Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $141.
Sheep, 29 ; value, $175 ; lbs. of Woc;il produced, 102 ; value, $97.
Horses, 256 ; value, $24,320 ; Oxen over four years old, 52; Steere under four years old,	value  of oxen  and steers, $5,150 ; Milch Cows, 378 ; Heifers, 40 ; v'alue of eows and heifers, $25,770; value · of Neat Stock not embraced above, (7 Bulls,) $250 ; gallons of Milk sold,  6,741;   value,   $1,078;   lbs.  of  Butter  sold,  24,016;   value,
$8,405 ; lbs. of Cheese, 6,120 ; value, $1,348. Beef, dreBBed, lbs., 157;200 ; value, $20,436.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 159,880;  value, $27,179.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 325 ; value, $26. Veal, dressed, lbs., 26,250 ; value, $2,625..
Swine, 148; value, $4,414 ; value of Poultry sold, $2,420 ; value of Eggs sold, $5,595 ; lbs. of HoJJ.ey, 223 ; value, $62.
Nurseries, 2 ; value sold, $2,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4.


HALIFAX.
Saw Mills,  4 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  503,000 ; value,
$7,660 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles. and Staves prepared for market, 235,000 ; value, $940 ; Oak ·Plank, value, $150 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 25.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 535 ; value, $3,240 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 40.
Charcoal, bush. m'd, 35,520 ; value, $3,380 ; cap.,$425; bands emp., 8.
Farms, 117 ; acres, 6,088 ; value, including Buildings, $234,385; acres
improved, 2,344 ; persons emp., 136. Unimproved Land, acres, 1,365.
. Uniniprovable Land, acres, 172.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	485
PLYllOUTB  Co.	HANOVER,
Wood1and, acres, 2,144 ; value, $78,097.
Indian Corn, acres, 118 ; bush., 8,490;	ue, $5,235. . Wheat, acres, l ; bush., 6 ; value, $12.
Rye, aeres, 17; bush., 75 ; value, $112.	'
Barley, acres, 2 ; bush., 18; value, $18.
Buckwheat, acres, 2!; bush., 18 ; value, $86. Oats, aerest22 ; bush., 630; value, $472.
Potatoes, acres, 840; bush., 4,791 ; value, $3,592.
Turnips cultivated  as  a field  crop, acres, 11 ; bush., 2,250 ; value, .
$1,225.	.
Cariot.c.i, acres, 1; bush., 125;  value, $75.
Cranbemes, acres, 8; bush., 47 ; value, $120.
English  Mowing,  acres,  5621- ; tons  of   English   hay,  501 ; value,
· $12,525.	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 808 ; tons of wet meadow or swalc hay, 298;  value, $2,930.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 20 ; tons of salt hay, 82 ; value, $820.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,387 ; value of apples, $1,308 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 83 ; value of pears, $20.
Sheep, 48 ; value, $192 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 200; value, $100.
Horses, 98; value, $7,880 ; Oxen over four years old, 80 ;  Steers  under four years old, 21 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,070 ; Milch Cows, 194 ; Heifers, 49 ; value of cows and heifers, $9,270 ;  1Bull,
$15; gallons of Mille sold, 212 ; value, $42_; lbs.  of  Butter  sold, 2,419 ; value, $967 ; lbs. of Cheese, 750; value, $92.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 16,650 ; value, $1,i65. Pork, dressed, lbs., 87,811 ; value, $6,220.
Swine,  212 ;  value,  $2,544 ; value  of  Poultry  sold, $456 ;  value of
Eggs  sold, $1,272.
 		•
HANOVER.

Forges, 2 ; value of stock  used, $24,000 ; tons of Bar  Iron, Anchono,
Chain Cables, and other articles of wrought  iron  m'd, 215 ;  value,
$48,000 ; cap., $28,000 ; hands emp., 16.
Tack and Brad MMufactories, 1; value of stock used, $12,000; ton's of tacks and  bmds  m'd, 47 ; value, $24,000; cap., $8,000;  bands emp.,
10.	•
Master Builders, 1; Buildings erected, 8 ; nlue, $2,500; value of materials used, $1,600• .
486	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
HANOVER.	PLYMOUTH  Co.

Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used,  $500 ; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $500 ; hands ,emp., 4.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; Hfdes tanned, 80 ; cap., $200·; hands emp., 1.	.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 500;  Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50,000 ;
gross value of  stock  used, $60,000 ; value  of  boota  e,nd  shoes m'd,
$95,000 ; cap., $14,000 ; m. emp., 101; £ emp., 22.
Saw  Mills, 5; feet  of  lumber  prepared  for  market,  150,000;  value,
$2,850 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles and Staves prepared for market, 450,000 ; value, $1,662 ; cap., $2,500; hands emp., 5.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 811; value, $3,100 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 80.
Farms, 319 ; acres, 8,992 ; value, including Buildings, $424,210 ; atres improved, 4,183 ; persons emp., 130.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,941. Unimprovable Land, acres, 101. Woodland, acres, 2,817 ; value, $74,893.
Indian Com, acres, 128 ; bush., 3,016 ; value, $4,524. Rye, acres, 28 ; bush., 893 ; value, $687.
Potatoes, acres, 104 ; bush., 8,026 ; value, $6,018. Turnips, acres, 8 ; bush., 810 ; value, $155.
Cranberries, acres, 2 ; bush., 75 ; value, $225.
English  Mowing, acres, 877; tons of  English hay, 782;  value,  $15,640.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 262 ; toWI of  wet  meadow  or swale hay, 202 ; value, $2,020.       .
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,237 ; value of apples, $8,597 ; Pear-trees cultivated  for  the&  fruit,  252 ;  value  of  pears,  $125; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 100 ; value of fruit, $50.
:Merino Sheep of different grades, 15 ; other kinds of Sheep, 207 ; value,
$999 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 45 ; value, 140 ; lbs. of all other Wool produced, 904 ; value, $678.
Horses, 149 ; value, $12,115 ; Oxen over four years old,81; Steers under four years old, 14; value of oxen and steers, $6,735 ; Milcli Cows, 267 ; Heifers, 30 ; value of cows and heifers, $11,461 ; value of gallons of Milk sold, 8,243 ; value, $648 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 6,444 ; value, $7,732 ; lbs. of Cheese, 2,455; value, $491.
Bee dressed, lbs., 8,345 ; value, $918. Pork, dressed, lbs., 71,732 ; value, $11,955.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 13,903 ; value, $1,738.	•
Swine, 138 ; value, $3,056 ; value of Poultry sold, $i,805 ; Eggs sold, value, $1,985 ; lbs. of Honey, 460 ; value, $184; value of unenu­ merated articles of Fann Produce, 87,500.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	487
PLYIIOUTII  Co.	
HANSON•
•
Bugle Trimmings  m'd, value, $16,450.
Tack and Shoe Nail Manufactories, 8 ; value of stock used, $51,800 ; tons of tacks and shoe nails m'd, 297; value, $77,500 ; cap., $38,300 ;.. m. emp., 87 ; £ emp., 16.	•
Railroad  Cars,  Coaches,  Chaises, Wagon..   Sleighs and other vehicles,
establishments for m. of, 1; value  of work  done, (Repairing,) $600;
value of stock used, $200 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing m'd, value,  $225.
Sheet Lead, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; lbs. Sheet Lead m'd, 40,000; value, $2,500; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Zinc Plates, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $12,000 ;
lbs. of Zinc Plates m'd, 90,000 ; value, $15,000; cap., $7,000 ; bands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments  for m. of; 1; value of stock used, $281 ; bbls. of
Soft. Soap m'd, 125; value, $500; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.
Blackamith  Shope, 1;  value of  stock used, $700;  value of  work  done,
$1,100 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.
Grist  Mills, 2 ;  bush.  Grain ground,  11,000; value,  $19,250; cap.,
$1,000 ; bands emp., 2.
Shoes, pairs of all  kinds  m'd, 115,792 ; value  of labor, $34,728.26  ;
m. emp., 100.
Straw Braid, yds. m'd, 81,740; straw braid m'd and not made into bon­ nets or bats,  $657.26.
Straw  Sbeeta for  Shaker bonnets, value of stock  used,  $822 ;  value m'd,
$648 ; f. emp., 9.
Blacking, establishments  for the  m. of, 1; value of Blacking m'd,  $8;
galls. m'd, 86.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of wooden boxes made, $8,000 ; cap., $700; m. emp., 2.
Saw  Mills;4 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared   for  market,  499,000 ; value,
$6,780; cap., $2,100 ; bands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prep for market, cords, 2,178 ; value, $10,483 ;
cap.,  $1,500;  bands  emp., 25.
Charcoal  m'd, bush., 11,520; value, $1,172 ; cap., 637 ; hands  emp., 1.
Farms, 94, ; acres, 9,0991 ; value, including Buildings, $379,979 ; acres improved, 8,812f ; persona emp., 107.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 845.
Unimprovable   Land, acres, 77i,
488	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
HANSON.	PLYMOUTH   Co.

Woodland, acres, 5,363 ; value, $115,211.
Indian Corn, acres, 107-l ; bush., 2,965 ; value, $5,820. Wheat. acres, ll ; bush., 91 ; value, $19.
Rye, acres, 27f ; bush., 197 ; value, $394. IBarley, acres, 10 ; bush., 108 ; value, $162. Oats, acres, 51; bush., 88 ;	ue, $79.90.
Potatoes, acres, 98-l ; bush., 6,968; value, $4,177.80.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8f ; bush., 1,635; value, $981. Onions, acres, l ; bush., 511; value, $51.50.
Carrots, acres, 1l ; bush., 874 ; value, $224.40. Cabbage, acres, 1l ; value, $304.
Winter Squash, acres, l ; value, $19.42.
Beeta and other esculent vegetables, acres, f ; bush., 124 ; value, $124. Cranberries, acres, Sf ; bush., {6 ; value, $138.	·
English  Mowing,  acres,  765!; tons  of  English  hay,   630f ;   value,
$12,615.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 269! ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 218! ; value, $1,746.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,270 ; value of apples, $2,475 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, . 729 ; value of pears, $259.50 ; all other trees cultivated  for their fruit, 449 ; value, $808.50 ; value of Strawberries cultivated or gathered for market, $681.
Sheep, 61; valu, $396 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 175; value, $175. Horses,  141; value, $13,352 ; Oxen over four years old, 30 ; Steers,
18 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,660 ; Milch Cows, 200 ; Heifers, 51; value of cows and heifers, $11,144 ; Calves, Colts, Lambs, &c., 156 ; value, $1,623; giillons of Milk sold, 4,716 ; value, $943.20 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 14,521 ; value, $5,082.85 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,185 ; value, $237.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 8,979 ; value, $1,077.48. Pork, dressed, lbs., 48,540 ; value, $8,737.20. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 140 ; value, $28.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 130 ; value, $15.60.
Swine, 81; value, $1,187 ; voJue of Poultry sold, $1,034 ; value of Eggs sold, $3,944.25 ; lbs. of Honey, 90 ; value, $45; Grapes, value,
$139 ; Beans, value, $237.50.
All other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, Hair  Dye,  $40.
Silk Bonnets and Hats and Ladies' Outside Garments, manufactories of. 2 ; value of stock used, $1,400; cap., $900 ; m. emp., 18 ; f. emp., 3.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	489
PLYMOUTH  Co.	HINGHAM.
HINGHAl\I.
Dress Trimmings, including gimps, cords, buttons, fringes, and tassels, establishments  for the  m. of, 1; value of  stock used,  $50,000 ;  value
of articles m'd, $100,000 ; cap., $55,000 ; m. emp., 25 ; £ emp., 50.	'
Rolling, Slitting, and Nail Mills, 1; value of stock used, $3,500 ; number of Machines for m. of nails, 8; tons of Nails m'd, 30; value, $5,000 ; cap., $2,300 ; hands emp., 3.	.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig· iron, furnaces for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $18,444 ; tons m'd, 382 ; value, $34,725 ; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Axes, Hatchet.s and other Edge Tools, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $10,900 ; articles m'd, dozens, 3,964 ; value, $23,825 ; cap., $4,150; hands emp., 13.	•
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1;value of stock used, $500; newspapers printed, (Hingham Journal and South Shore Advertiser,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value, $840 ; cap., $600 ; value of all other printing done, $450 ; m. emp., 4.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of articles m'd, (part.s of harnesses and wagon trimmings,) $1,800 ; value of stock used,  $1,000;  cap., $400 ; hands emp., 4.
Corcl6to,e Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $256,803 ; Cordage m'd, tons, 895 ; value, $330,895 ; cap., $50,000; m. einp., 55 ; £ emp., 10.
Sail  Lofts,  1;  sails  made  of  American  fabric,  31;  value  of fu.bric,
$3,912 ; value of sails, $4,641 ; sails Il)ade of foreign fabric, 2 ; value of fabric, $565 ; value of sails, $695; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishment.s for m. of, 1,; 2 wagons and parts of carriages m'd ; value, $1,000 ; value of stock used, $500 ;  cap.,  $300 ;  hands  emp., 4.	·
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $7,000 ; cap.,_$3,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 7. Master Builders, 8 ; number of Buildings erected, 10; value, $13,784 ;
value of  materials,  $8,800 ; hands emp., 16.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $3,440; value of work done,
$8,215; cap., $2,100 ; hands emp., 8.
Cabinet Manufactories, 3; value of stock used, $10,725; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $28,109 ; cap., $16,500 ; hands emp., 36.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $607; nlue of tin ware m'd, $1,550 ; cap., $1,100 ; hands emp., 8.
62
490	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
HINGHAIL	PLYMOUTH   Co.

Tanning and Currying Establishmenta, 1; value of stock used, $37,200 ; Hides tanned, 10,600 ; hides tanned and curried, 10,600 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $50,000; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 15. Boota, pairs of all kinds m'd, 9,386 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 27,338; gross value of stock used, $53,435 ; value of boots and shoes
m'd, $77,423; cap., $7,300 ; m. emp., 86 ; £ emp., 16.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for m. of, 1; value . of stock   used,
$200 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $600 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Pail and Tub Manufactories, 6; value of stock used, $6,200 ; number m'd, 39,300 ; value, $14,775; cap., $8,500 ; hands emp., 20.
Wooden Ware, establishments for m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $5,180 ; value of ware m'd, $10,300 ; cap., $8,100;  hands' emp.,  14.
Casks, establishments for the.m. of, 1; value of stock used, $160 ; casks m'd, 2o0 ; value, $250 ; cap., $160 ; hands emp., 2.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; Coffins made, 80 ; value, $1,120 ; cap.,
$300; m. emp., 1.
Planing Mills and establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of Sashes, doors and BJinds m'd,
$3,800 ; value of all other work done, $1,200 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp.,	.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 12 ; value of stock used, $3,999 ; value
of wooden boxes made, $10,515 ; cap., $4,792 ; m. emp., 18; £ emp., 11.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved for market, 500 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Bakeries,   1;  value  of  stock  used,   $15,000;   value  of  Bread  m'd,
$25,000 ; cap., $4,700 ; hands emp., 8. ·
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 10; tonnage, 790 ; bbls. of mackerel  taken, 8,058; value, $123,532 ; value of Salt consumed,
$9,066; cap., $39,150 ; hands emp., 128.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 3 ; tonnage, 124; value, $3,300 ; amount received for freight, $2,800 ; hands emp., 9.
" Saw Mills, 1; Shingles prepared for market, 133,750 ; vue, $535 ; Cooper Stuff . and  all other Wooden  Ware, value, $2,500 ; cap.,
$1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,940 ; value, $12,785 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 12.	·
Farms, 117 ; acres, 6,614 ; value, including Buildings, $515,671; acres
improved, 6,583 ; persons emp., 159.

i    . ... -	Digitized   by Google
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	491
PLTXOUTB  Co.	HINGHAM,

Unimproved Land, acres, 81. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 10. Woodland, acres, 4,557 ; value, $125,817.
Indian Com, acres, 162 ; bush., 5,653 ; value, $11,871.
Wheat, acres, l; bush., 4 ; value, $10.
Rye, acres, 21 ; bush., 829 ; value, $658. Barley, acres, 8qf ; bush., 675 ; value, $1,014. Oats, acres, 2 ; bush., 25 ; value, $25• .
Potatoes, acres, 62 ; buah., 7,181 ; value, $6,774.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 71; bush., 1,427 ; value, $706.
Onions, acres, 19\ ; bush., 4,946 ; value, $8,599. Carrots, acres, 7t ; bush., 8,714 ; value, $1,114. Cabbage, acres, 7l ; value, $797.
Winter  Squash, acres, l; value, $76.  •
Garden Seeds, acres, l ; value, $80. .
Market  Gardening,  acres, 80;  value  of products, $4,600.
Beets  and other esculent vegetables,  acres,  14 ; bush., 2,188 ; value,
$1,772.
Basket Willow, acres, 1; value, $50.
Cranberries, acres, 6 ; bush., 50 ; value, $250.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,692;   tons  of  English hay, 1,354 ;   value,
$40,620.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 295 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 2701 ; value, $8,246.	,
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 234}; tons of salt hay, 274:f ; value, $5,495. Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 12,858 ; value of apples, $9,498 ; Pear-tn;les cultivated for their fruit, 4,864 ; value of pears, $1,991 ; other trees cultivated for their fruit, 502 ; value of fruit, $375 ; value
of  Nuts  or  Berries  cultivated  or gathered  for market, $146.
Sheep, 1,282 ; value, $7,404 ; Iba. of Wool produced, 6,517 ; value,
$4,888.
Horses, 839 ; value, $28,900 ; Oxen over four years old, 68 ; Steers under four years old, 21; value of oxen and steers, $8,170; Milch Cows, 878 ; Heifers,  62; value of cows and heifers, $21,970 ; value of Neat Stock not .embraced above, (76 Yearlings, 5 Bulls, 4 Store . Cattle,)  $1,460 ; gallons of Milk sold, 82,861 ; value, $8,091 ; lbs. of  Butter  sold, 5,729 ;  value,  $2,292 ;  lbe. of  Cheese,  175; value,
$85.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 877,895; value, $42,518. Pork, dressed, lbs., 108,872 ; value, $18,697. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 44,560 ; value, $13,368.
492	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
HULL.	PLYMOUTH Co.

Veal, dressed, lbs., 28,160 ; value, $5,682.
Swine, 165; value, $2,906'; value of Poultry sold,  $898;  value  of Eggs sold, $2,268 ; lbs. of Honey, 816; value, $158; value of unenu­ merated articles of Fa.mi Produce, $7,500.
Taps  and  Faucets,  establishments  for  m. of,  1; articles  m'd, 8,120 ;
value, $65(1; value of stock used, $180 ; cap., $60 ; m. emp., 1.
Bait Mills, 1; value of stock, $889 ; value m'd, $768; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Ship Wheels, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock, $500 ; value m'd, $1,500; cap., $850; harids emp., 1.
Balances, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock, $5,000 ; value m'.d, $8,000 ; cap., $2,000.; hands emp., 5.


HULL.

Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels employed in, 1; tonnage, 67 ; bbls. Mackerel taken, 800 ; value, $5,100 ; hhds. Salt consumed in the mackerel and cod fisheries, 11; cap., $2,000; hands emp., 12.
Lobsters taken, 800,000 ; value, $12,000 ; cap:, $5,500 ; _hands emp., 45.
Herring taken, 50,000 ; value, $500 ; hands emp., 4.
Coastwise  or  Carrying Trade, vessels  engaged  in,  6 ; tonnage,  850 ;
value, $4,500 ; amount received for Freight, $8,000 ; hands emp., 22.
Farms, 6 ; acres, 1871; value, including Buildings, $18,500 ; acres improved, 800 ; persons emp., 12.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 800.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 500.
Indian Corn, al:res, 4i ; bush., 190 ; value, $380.
Wheat, acres, t ; bush., 88 ; value, $99.
Rye, acres, lt ; bush., 85 ; value, $70. Barley, acres, 4; bush., 75 ; value, $118. Potatoes, acres, 5 ; bush., 550 ; value, $450.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1 ; bush., 188 ; value, $67.
Cabbage, acres, l; value, $100.
Winter Squash, acres,·! ; value, $100.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres,	; bush., 100 ; value, $50. English Mowing, acres, 275 ; tons of English hay, 844; value, $12,040. Salt Marsh mown, acres, 40 ; tons of salt hay, 40 ; value, $480.
Apple-trees cultivated for their  fruit, 2! acres ;  Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 40 ; value of pears, $80.	·
1865.] .	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETIS.	498
PLTIIOUTH   Co.	KINGSTON,

Saxony Sheep, 121; value, $3,025; lbs. of Wool produced from Sax­ ony sheep, 605 ; value, $458.75.
Horses, 16; value, $2,000; Oxen over four years old, 6 ; value, $625 ; Milch Cows, 29 ; Heifers, 2 ; value of cows and heifers, $1,590 ; gallons of Milk ·sold, 8,452; value, $828.48 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 800 ; value, $120.	·
Beef, dressed, lbs., 1,200 ; value, $120. . Pork, dressed, lbs., 675 ; value, $135.
Swine, 12; value, $600 ; value of Poultry sold, $50 ; value of Eggs sold, $50.


KINGSTON.
Cotton Mills, 1; spindles, 890 ; lbs. of Cotton consumed, 12,000 ; gross value of stock used, $15,600 ; lbs. Cotton Thread m'd, 10,050 ; value,
$20,100 ; cap., $20,000 ; m.emp., 3 ; £ emp., G.
Forges, 2 ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; tons of Bar Iron, Anchors, Chain  Cables, and other articles  of wrought  iron m'd,  120 ; value,
$24,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp. 12'.	. Hollow Ware and Castings, other than  pig  iron, furnaces for m. of, 1;
value of stock used, $9,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 131; value, $14,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Gimlets, Bits  and  Augers, mauufactories  of, 2 ; '"alue  of stock used,
$1,500 ;_ augers m'd, 2,850; value, $3,100 ; cap., $1,800; hands emp.,3. Caulkers' Tools m'd, $2,500 ; value of stock used, SI,000 ; cap., $1,000 ;
hands emp., 2.	·	'
Rivet· Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $26,000; tons of rivets m'd, 92; value, $32,700 ; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Ship Yards, 1; value of materials used, $11,000; vessels launched, 1; tonnage, 87 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 10.•
Sail Lofts, 1; Sails made of American  fabric, 20 ; value of the  fabric,
$5,000; value of the sails, $5,300 ; cap., $500 ; ll'mds emp., 1.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of  clothing m'd, $3,500 ; cap., $500; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 4.
Soap, establishments,  for  m.  of, 1; value  of  stock   used,  $1,200; bbls•
soft  soap  m'd,  250 ; value,  $500; lbs. of •hard  soap  m'd,  10,000 ;
value, $700 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $3,500 ; value of work dene,
$6,800; cap., $1,900 ; hands emp., 6.
•Qn a large abip not yet launched.
494	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
KINGSTON.	PLTIIOUTU  Co.

Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, SlOO ; value of tin ware m'd, $400 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Straw Braid  m'd and not made into bonnets or hats,   $850.
Snuff, Tobacco, and  Cigars  m'd, $500; value of  the stock  used, $200 ;
cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments for preservation of, 1 ; tons of ice pre-· served, 800 ; value, $500 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.	'	·
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels employed in, 4 ; tonnage, 870 ; quintals of Codfish taken, 4,000 ; value, $32,000 ; value of Cod Liver Oil sold, $2,050 ; value of Salt consumed in the mackerel and cod fisheries, $3,000 ; cap., $j2,000 ; hands emp., 41. ·
Saw Mills, 4 ; feet of  box boards prepared  for market, 400,000 ; value,
$15,000 ; Shingles prepared for market, 175,000 ; value, $500 ; cap.,
$5,100 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood  and  Bark prepared  for market, cords,  1,200;  value,   $4,500;
hands emp., 20.	.
Farms, 52 ; acres, 4,052 ; value, including Buildings,  $126,800 ; acres
improved, 1,703 ; persons emp.,	. Unimproved Land, acres, 225.
Woodland, acres, 2,122 ; value, $32,770.
Indian Corn, acres, 75 ; bu.sh., 2,520 t value, $4,000.
Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 12 ; value, $86. ltye, acres, 21 ;.bu.sh., 236 ; value, $500. Barley, acres, 2 ; bush., 40 ; value, $90. Oats, acres, 2 ; bush., 50 ; value, $50. · Millet, acres, 1; bush., 25 ; value, $60.
Potatoes, acres, O ; bush., 2,710 ; value, $2,710.
Turnips cultivated as a fielii crop, acres, 3; bu.sh., 1,350;  value,   $675.
Carrots, acres, 2; bush., 500 ; value, $240.
Winter Squash, acres, l; value, $65.
Beets, acres, 2 ; bush., 500 ; value, $200,
English Mowing, acres, 162 ; tons English hay, 256 ; value, $6,500.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 91 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 81 ; value,  1,000.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 95 ; tons of Salt hay, 100 ; value, $1,200.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit, 1,500 ; value  of apples,  $450 ;
value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $200.
Sheep, 60; gross value, $850 ; Wool produced, lbs., 200 ; value, $160. HQfSes, 138 ; value, $11,470 ; Oxen over four years old, 50; Steers under four years old, 16 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,200 ; Milch Cows, 228 ; Heifers, 79 ; value (!f cows and heifers, $11,850; gallons of Milk sold, 6,000 ; value, $1,500;  lbs. of Butter sold, 11,400 ; value, $4,500.


....	Digitized   by Google
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	495
PLTIIOUTB Co.	LAXEVILLE.

Beef, dressed, lbs., 107,800 ; value, $18,462. Pork, dressed, lbfl., 80,250 ; value, $4,625. Mutton, dre88ed, lbe., 8,500 ; value, $487.
Veal, dreesed, lbs., 11,500 ; value, $1,725.
Swine, 82 ; value, $1,590 ; value. of Poultry sold, $200 ; value  of Eggs s<ij, $1,100.

LAKEVILLE.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 1; value of building stone quarried and prepared  for market,  $1,200;  hands emp., 2.
Saw  Mills,  1; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  180,000; value,
$1,800; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles and Staves prepared for market, 180,000 ; value, $600 ; hands ·emp., 1.
Firewood ancl Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,500 ; value, $10,000.	•
Charcoal m'd, bush., 1,000;  value, $125.
Farms, 170 ; acres, 8,870 ; value, including Buildings, $209,800 ; acres improved, 2,500 ; persons emp., 200.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,870. Uuimprovable Land, acres, 1,500. Woodland, acres, 8,500 ; value, $204,800.
Indian Corn, acres, 290 ; bush., 6,240;  value, $7,800.
Wheat, acree, 24 ; bush., 264 ; value, $528. Rye, acres, 72 ; bush., 620; value, $980.
Barley, acres, 14:; bush., 170 ; value, $170. Oats, acres, 85 ; bush., 725 ; value, $540.
Potatoes, acres, 115 ; bush., 6,400 ; value, $8,200.
English Mowing, acres, 1,230 ; tons of English hay, 780; value, $1,560.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 8i2 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 230 ; value, $2,000.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,000 ; value  of apples, $3,000 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 500; value of the fruit, $200 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $1,000.
Sheep, 222 ; value, $1,110 ; lbe. of Wool produced, 700 ; value, $560.
Horses, 158; value, $9,700 ; Oxen over four years old, UO ; Steers under four years old, 51 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,805 ; Milch Cows, 289 ; Heifers, 97 ; value of cows and heifers, $10,855; gallons of Milk aold, 10,000 ; value, $2,000 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 4,0009; value, $1,400 ; lbe. of Cheese, 2,500 ; value, $875.
Beef,"dressed, lbe., 40,000 ; value, $4,000.
'

496	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
MARION.	PLYMOUTH   Co.


Pork, dressed, lbs., 50,000 ; value, $7,500. Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,000 ; value, $1,000.
Swine, 84 ; value, $1,100 ; value of Poultry sold, $600 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,200.
•
MARION.

Ship Yards, 3; value of materials used, $,000 ; vessels launched, 1; tonnage, 35 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $3,500 ; ban emp., 7.
Sail  Lofts, 1 ; 81\ils  made  of  American  fabric, 5 ; value  of  the fabric,
$700; value of sails, $850 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
Slt, establishments for m. of, 1; bush. ltl.'d, 300 ; value, $300 ; cap.,
$200 ; hands emp., 1.
Kerosene or refined Petroleum, establishments for the m. of, 1; Crude Petroleum, galls. ed, 52,000 ; value, $16,000 ; tons coal used, 40 ; value, $450 ; number  of Barrels  or other Casks used, 1,000 ; value,
$1,500 ; galls. Kerosene or refined Petroleum m'd, 34,000 ; value,
$30,600 ; number galls. Naptha, 8,000; value, $2,560 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Master Builders, 15 ; Buildings erected, 6 ; value, $4,500 ; value  of
materials used, $2,500 ; hands emp., 15.
Blacksmith Shops, 1;·value of stock used, $500 ; value of work done,
$500 ; cap., S300 ; hands emp., 2.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1 ; value of stock used, $300 ; value of tin ware m'd, $375 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 100 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 350 ; gross value of stock used, $800 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,200; cap., $200 ; m; emp., 2.
Whale Fishery, vessels emp. in, 1; tonnage, 125 ; gallons of Sperm Oil imported, 4,894 ; value, $9,788 ; gallons of Whale Oil imported, 340 ; value, $459 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 22.
Shell Fish taken, bush., 800 ; value, $600 ; cap., $200; hands emp., 10. Alewives, Shad and Salmon taken, bbls., 300 ; value, $100 ; hands emp.,
6.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engi\a,ed in, 3 ; tonnage, 300 ; value, $10,000 ; amount received for freight, $6,500 ; hands emp., 12. eaw Mills, 3; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 410,000 ; value,
$5,560 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles and Staves prepared for market, 420,000 ; value, $1,200; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 8,	•
•
1865.]

•
INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	497


PLTHOUTB  Co.	M.\BIOlf.
Firewood and Bark prepared. for market, cords, 1,400 ; value, $5,600 ;
cap., $1,400 ; hands emp., 40.
Farms, 50; acres, 7,104 ; J'alue, including Bnildings, $294,183 ; acres
improved, 1,319 ; persons emp., 100.
Unimproved Land, acres, 600.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 150.
Wooolan 5,000 ; value,  $84,944.
Indian Corn,  .

41 ; bush., 1,400;  value,  $2:450.
Rye, acres, 20 ; bush., 140 ; value, $280.
Barley, acres, 4; bush., 88 ; value, $50.
Oats, acres, 5 ; boab., 50 ; value, $50.
Potatoes, acres, 43; bush., 3,516 ; value, $8,000.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 4 ; bush., 400 ; value, $240.
Onions, acres, 1; bush., 50 ; value, $200. Carrots, acres, 2 ; bush:, 400 ; value, $150. Cabbage, acres, 5 ; value,  $200.
Market Gardening, acres, 20 ; value of products, $700.
Cranberries, acres, 8; bush., 118 ; value, $590.
English  Mowing, acres, 298 ; tons of  English  hay,  266;  value, $5,820.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres,  38 ;  tons of wet meadow or ewale
hay, 33 ; value, $264.
Salt Manh mown, acres, 177 ; tons of salt hay, 110 ; value, $800.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,500 ; valutJ of apples, $300 ; Pear-trees  cultivated for  their  fruit,  225; value  of  pears,  $150 ;   all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 300 ; value of  fruit, $200 ;  value of  Nu&a or Berries cultivated  or gathered for market,   $600.
Sheep, 2§ ; value, $156; lbs. Wool produced, 78; value, $70;
Hones, 64 ; value, $6,400 ; Oxen over four years old, 18 ; Steers under four years old, 10; value of oxen and steers, $2,300 ; Milch Cows, 125; Heifers, 10; valu of cows and heifen, $4,455; gallona of Milk l!Old,  8,500;  value,  $700 ;  pounds  of   Butter  sold,   4,000 ;  va1ue,
$1,600.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 8,000 ; value, $460. Pork, dreBBed, lbs., 29,000 ; value, $5,220. Mutton, dreBBed, lbe., 400 ; value, $80.
Veal, dressed, lbe., 700 ; value, $84,.
Swine, 125; value, $1,200 ; va1ue of Poultry sold, $62.3; value of Eggs sold, $1,852 ; lbe. of Honey, 200 ; value, $40.
•
63
. .
•
498	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.•
HARSHFIELD.	PLDIOUTH   Co.


MARSHFIELD.

Clothing, establishments for m. of, 5; value ,.f clothing m'd, $116,482 ;
m. emp., 6; £ emp., 223•
. Soap,  establishments  for  m.  of,  1; bbls.  soft  soap  m'd,   181;    value,
$525.	'
Master Buildeni, 3; Buildings erected, 6; value, $4,020ftvalue of materials used, $2,800 ; bands emp., 8.	•
Blacksmith Shops, 8i..value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of wor done,
$4,500; cap., $150 ; bands emp., 5.
Flouring  Mills,  5; bushels of Grain ground, 7,942 ; value,  $11,918;
bands emp., 5.
Boots,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,  1,812 ; Shoes, pairs  of  all kinds m'd,
54,831; value of boots and shoes m'd, $119,158; m. emp., 75; f. emp., 8.	.
Planing Mills, 2 ; value of stock planed, $5,000.
Boxes, establishments for m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $8,844 ; value of wooden boxes made, $4,638 ; m. emp., 4.
Alewives, Shad and Salmon taken, 190,000; value, $1,850 ; hands emp.,
15.
Coastwise  and   Carrying   Trade,  .vessels   engaged   in, 1; tonnage,  25  ;
value, $800 ; amount received for freight, $1,500 ; bands emp., 2.
Saw  Mills,  9 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  950,000 ; value,
$12,000 ; Shingles, 875,000 ; value, $1,125; cap., $5,500; hands emp., 10.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 11000; value, $5,000. Charcoal, bush. m'd, 1,000;  value, $200;  cap., $75 ; bands emp., 1.
Farms, 268; acres, 14,529 ; value, including Buildings, $495,270; acres
improved, 14,488 ; persons emp., 273.	•
Unimproved  Lan4, acres, 96.
Woodland, acres, 3,080 ; value, $63,289.
J;,.idian Com, acres, 275; bush., 8,196 ; value, $14,348.
Wheat, acres, 10 ; bush., 150 ; value, $300. Rye, acres, 52; bush., 599 ; value, $1,047. Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 121; value, $182, Oats, acres, 47 ; bush., 897 ; value, $897.
Potatoes, acres, 122; bush., 10,086 ; value, $7,564.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 14 ; bush., 2,862 ;value, $1,816.
qnions, acres, 4 ; bush., 1,270; value, $2,540. Carrots, acres, 21; bush., 553 ; value, $276. Cabbage, acres,  i; value,  $686.


/
1865.]	INDUSTRY ON MASSACHUSETTS.	499
PI.YMOUT.lt  Co.	1r1ARSBF1ELD,

Winter Squash, acres, 2 ; value, $425.
Market Gardening, acres, 5 ; value of products, $912.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2; bush., 456 ; value, $456. Tobacco, acres, l ; lbs., 237 ; value, $80.
Cranberries, acres, 4 ; bush., 178 ; value, $378.
English )IQ.wing, acres, 994; tons of English hay, 1,092 ; value, $22,11& Wet Mdw or Swale mown, acres, 685 ; tons wet meadow or swale
bay, 549 ; value, $588.
Salt   Marsh   mown,   acres,   1,757 ;   tons   of   salay,   1,817 ;   value,
$12,200.
ApJ?l&-trees cultivated for their fruit, 11,624 ; value of apples, $8,462 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit,  1,125 ;  value  of  p8aJ'!!, $860 ; all other  trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit,  1,848;  value.  of   fruit,  $411 ; Yalue  of  Nats  or  Berries  culiivated  or gathered  for  marke  $2,180.   ·
Sheep,  851;  value,  $1,755; lbs.  of  Wool  produced,  1,111 ; value,
$444.
Horses, 191; value, $15,128 ; Oxen over four years old, 177 ; Steel'8 under four years old, 79 ; value of oxen and steers, $15,892 ; Milch Cows, 888; Heifers, 68; value of cows and heifers, $18,212 ; number of Neat Stock not embraced above, 12 Bulls ; gallons of Milk sold, 8,764 ; value, $752; lbs. of Butter  sold, 7,861 ; value,  $2,751;  lbs. of Cheese, 4,368 ; value, $728.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 166,715; value, $20,889. Pork, lbs. dressed, 90,375 ; value, $16,268. Mutton, lbs. dressed, 2,980 ; value, $497, Veal, lbs. dressed,  18,720 ; value,   $2,536.
Swine, 298; value, $5,936; value of Poultry sold, $2,184 ; value of Eggs sold, $6,472; lbs. of Hooey, 513; value, $171 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 20; value,•$18; value of unenumerated  articles of Farm  Produce,
$2,426.
Cotton and Woollen Flannels m'd in the family, yds., 75 ; value, $75. Woollen Yarn, lbs., 750; value,  $1,500.
Bass and other Fish taken through  the ice, value,  $850.
Lobsters, 59,000 ; value, $2,360.
Sea Fowl, Woodcocks, &c., including Furs, value, $980. Dentistry,  value, $8,500.
Wheelwright  and Carriage Business, including  Painting, value, $8,000•






Digitized by Google
•





Salt, establishments  for the m. of, 1; bush. of Salt m'd, 100 ; value,
$100; cap:, $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for the m. o( 1; value of stock used, $500 ; bbls.
of sot\ soap m'd, 100 ; value, $500 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 8,000 ; value, $600 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.	•
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; val_ue of stook  used, $400 ; value of  work c»ne,
$1,000 ; cap., $2(1; hands emp., 2.  .
Cabinet Manufactories,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $0_;  value of  Chairs
and Cabinet Ware  m'd, (Coffins and Boxes  included,) $1,400 ; cap.,
$200 ;	ds emp., 2.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of  tin
wa.re m'd, $200 ; cap., $50 ; hands eq,., 1.
Whale Fishery, vessels employed in, 2; tonnage, 850 ;. gallons of Sperm Oil imported,  8,505;  value,  $17,210 ;	p., $20,000 ; hands emp., 42.
Alewives taken, 171,500 ; value, $429 ; hands emp., 5.
Saw Mills, 4 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market, 508,000 ; value,
$5,565 ; Shingles prepared for market, 190,000 ; value, $570 ; value
of all other Lumber, $2,712 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood prepared for  market,  cords,  1,034;  value,  $3,619 ;  hands emp.,  5.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 4,000 ; value, $560 ; hands emp., 6. .
Farms, 104; acres, 6,551 ; value, including Buildings,  $206,720;  acres of  land improved, 851; persopa emp., 91.	·
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,187. Unimprovable Land, acres, 828. Woodland, acres, 4,672; value, $89,607.
Indian Com, acres, 125 ; bush., 8,566; value, $5,849. Wheat, acres, 18\ ; bush., 180 ; value, $450.
Rye, acres, 22 ; bush., 269; value, $588. Barley, acres, 251; bush., 412 ; value, $824. Oats, acres, 12i ; bush., 824; value, $824. Potatoes, acres, 50 ; bush., 5,000 ; value, $5,000. Turnips, acres, 4 ; bush., 1,200 ; value, $600.
Onions, bush., 19 ; value, $57.
Carrots, acres, i; bush., 276; value, $92. Cabbage, acres, i; value, $63.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, bush., 25;  value, $12.
Cranberries, bush., 44 ; value,  $182.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	501
PLYHOUTR  Co.	JrlmDLEBOROUGB,

English   Mowing,  acres,  589 ;  tons   of   English  bay,  558!; value,
$11,070.
4
Wet Meadow  or Swale mown, acres, 60!; tons of wet meadow or   swale
hay, 60!; value, $484.
Salt Marsh  mown,  acres, 192 ; tons of  salt bay,  183;  value, $1,064.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,661 ; value of apples, $296; all other t cultivated for their fruit, 208 ; value of fruit, $70 ; value of Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $38.
Sheep, 69 ; value, $414; lbs. of Wool produced,	4 ; value, $1(7.
Horees, 88; value, $6,500 ; Oxen over four years old, 52 ; Steers under four years old, 26 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,960 ; Milch Cows, 151; Heifers, 31; value of cows and heife1'$, $7,385 ; 54 Calves and Yearlings, $671; gallons of Milk sold, 8,512 ; t'alue, $702; lbs. of Butter  sold,  3,663 ; value, $1,465.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 9,065 ; value, $906. Pork, dreaeed, lbs., 52,846 ; value, $9,528. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 100 ; value,  $12. Veal, dressed, lbs.,  170;  value,  $17.
Swine, lbs., 170; value, $2,202 ; value of Poultry sold, $364; value of Eggs sold, $1,054; lbs. of Honey, 215; value, $65; lbs. of Bees- . wax, 4 ; value, $2 ; value of .unenumerated articles of Fann  Prod­ uce, $300.
Hone Halters, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; Horse Halters, m'd, 30,000 ; value, $12,000 ; value of stock used, $7,000; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 9.


MIDDLEBOROUGH.
Cotton Mills, 1; Spindles, 4,000 ; lbs. of Cotton consumed, 75,000 ; Yam
m'd, lbs., 63,750 ; value, $37,500 ; m. emp., 10 ; £ emp., 10.
Woollen Mills,· 1; sets of machinery, 8 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 180,000 ; gross value of stock us, $250,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 84,500 ; value, . $380,200; cap., $180,000 ; m. emp., 82; £ emp., 30.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,400 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 150;  value, $9,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Shovels, Spades, Forks and Hoes, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,000; dozens m'd, 1,382 ; value, $9,640 ; cap., $31000; hands emp , 8.	·
502	STATISTICS  (IF  THE	(1865.
MIDDLEBOROUGH,	PLYllOUTH   Co.

Printing  and  Newspaper   Establishments,   1;  value  of   stock  used,
$1,500 ; newspapers printed, (l\liddleborough Gazette, Wareham Ne:S, Bridgewater Banner, East Bridgewater News,) 4 ; issued weekly ; value, $2,500; cap., $1,850 ; Books printed, 1; value of all other printing done, $1,500 ;_m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 2.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock  used,
$1,200 ;daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 4,000 ; value, $2,000;
cap., $1,000 ; m. mp., 2; £ emp., i•
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 8 ; harnesses m'd, 47 ; .value, $2,475; value of stock used, $1,200 ; cap., $400; hands  emp., 3.
Railroad  Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons,  Sleighs,  and  other   vehicles,
·establishments for m. of, 8 ; wagons m'd, 21; value, $2,145; value of stock used, $525 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 3.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $6,000; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 3; £ emp., 10. Soap, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value  of  stock  used, $100 ; bbls.
of soft soap m'd, 200 ; value, $800 ; cap.; $200 ; hands emp., 1, Blacksmith Shops, J ; value of stock used, $2,105; value of work done,
$4,362; cap., $1,775; hands emp., 9.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $520 ; value of tin ware m'd, $781; cap., $1,500; hands emp., I.
Varnish and Japan, 1; value of stock used, $1,200 ; gallons of varnish m'd,.6,000; value of varnish and japan, $9,600; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,  189,000 ;  gross value  of  stock  used,
$140,200 ; value of shoes m'd, $216,000 ; cap., $21,900 ; m. emp.,
184;  £ emp., 35.
. Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $125,000 ; straw bonnets m'd, 50,000; value, $50,000 ; straw hats m'd, 25,000; value, $175,000 ; cap., $75,000 ; m. emp., 50 ; f. emp., 900.
Snuff, Tobacco, and Cignrs m'd, value, $850 ; value of stock used, $300 ;
cap., $100; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.	•
Casks, establishments for m. of, I ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; num­ ber of casks m'd, 100,000 ; value, $17,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Coffin.,  and  Burial  Cases  of  all  kinds,  manufactories  of,  2 ; value of
stock  used,  $810 ; coffins  made,  135 ; value,  $1,734 ; cap., $1,000 ;
hands emp., 2.
Box&, establishments for m. of, 3 ; value of stock used,_ $11,200 ; value of wooden boxes made, $17,500 ; cap., $6,600 ; m. emp.,  16.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	503
PLYKOUTH  Co.	MmDLEBOROUGH.
Alewives,  Shad and  Salmon taken,  201,000 ;  value, $1,672 ; hands
.emp., 4.
Saw Mills, 16 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 8,898,000 ; value,
$40,005 ; Latha, Clapboards; Shingles and Staves prepared for market, 2,576,000 ; value, $11,890; value of Cedar, $f50; cap., $85,QOO ; hands emp., 90.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 6,428 ; value, $20,891; hands emp., 128.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 88,825; value, $8,665.75.
Farms, 445; acres, 83,621 ; value, including Buildings, $697,448; acres of land improved, 8,245 ; pereons emp., 569.
Unimproved Land, acres, 16,962. Unimprovable  Land, 984.
Woodland, acres, 19,928 ; value, $888,354.
Indian Corn, acres, 594 ; bush., 16,166; value, $82,882. Wheat, acres, 85 ; bush., 476 ; value, $1,428.
Rye, acres, 174; bush., 1,580; value, $3,555. Barley, 18 ; bush., 88i; value, $772.
Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 8 ; value, $16.
Oats, acres, 259 ; bush., 5,569 ; value, $5,569. Potatoes, acres, 280 ; bush., 24,881; valu!), $18,286."
Turnips  cultivated   as  a  field  crop,  acres,  8 ;  bush.,  8,208;  value,
$1,924.80.
Onions, bush., 15 ; value, $80.
Carrots, acres, li; bush., 809 ; value, $485.40. Cabbage, acres, f ; value, $246.
Market Gardening, acres, 2 ; value, $327.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 1; bush., 185 ; value, $111. Tobacco, lbs., 198; value, $100.
Cranberries, acres, 40; bush., 194 ; value, $582.
English  Mowing,  acres,  3,877 ; tons  of  English  bay,  2,887 ; value,
$58,425.
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale  mown, acres,  1,158;  tons of wet  meadow or
swale bay, 982 ; value, $9,820.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 16,680; value of apples, $7,750 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,f59 ; value of pears, $488 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,500; value, $1,023 ; value of Nuts or Berriea cultivated or gathered for  marke $589.	. Saxony Sheep of ditrerent grades, 8 ; Merino Sheep of ditferent graces, 18 ; all other kinds of sheep, 586 ; gross value of all sheep, $ ,059 ;
. lbs. of Wool  produced  from  Saxony Sheep, 12;  value, $18.20;  lbs.  of
504	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
NORTH  BRIDGEWATER.	PLYHOUTH   Co.

Merino  Wool,  47 ; value,  $49.35; lbs. of all  other wool produced,
· 1,663; value, $1,600.
Horses, 475 ; value, $39,010 ; Oxen  over  four  years old,  221; Steffl's
under fuur years old, 177 ; value of oxen and stee'8, $28,198; Milch Cows, 852; Heifers, 206 ; value of cows and heifers, $37,7.88; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (19 Bulls and 4 Goats,) $519 ; gallons of Milk sold, 6,005; value, $1,441.20; lbs. of Butter sold, 17,027 ; value, $6,810.80; lbs. of Cheese, 6,106;  value, $1,221.20.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 920,160; value, $92,016. Pork, dressed, lbs., 184,485 ; value, $81,858.95. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 5,085; value, $755.25.
Veal, dre88ed, lbs., 17,800 ; value,   $2,186.
Swine, 844 ; value, $5,688 ;  value  of  Poultry  sold,  $2,082 ; value&of Eggs sold, $5,787 ; lbs.of Honey, 742 ; value, $217.50 ; lbs.of Bees­  wax, 51; value, $25.75; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Prod11ce,  $472;  Braiding Straw, $25.
Articles  m'd  in the family  for  sale  and  noi  before  enumerated,   value,
$885.
Taxidermist, I ; Birds and Animals mounted, 125; value, $125; value of stock used, $10.
Cask  Heads,  500,000 ; value,  $12,500; value  of stock  used, $8,00(1 ;
cap., $10,000 ; m. cmp., 5.


NORTH    BRIDGEWATER.

Mechanics'  Tools  m'd, value,  $28,525 ; value  of  stock  used, $5,469 ;
cap., $4,500; hands emp., 88.
Tacit and Brad Manufactories, 1 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; tons of tacks and brads m'd, 9 ; value, $4,800 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 8. Organs, Melodeons, and Harmoniums, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,900; Instruments m'4, 70 ; value, $6,86'0;  cap., $8,000 ;
hands emp., 7.	,
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; newspapers printed, (North Bridgewater Gazette,) 1 ; issued weekly ; value, $1,600 ; cap., $8,000 ; value of all other printing done, $1,148}
mp., 2 ; £ emp., I.
Daguerreian and  Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of  stock used,
$1,,29 ; daguerreotypes  and  photographs  taken, 26,000 ; value,
$6,900 ; cap., $2,400 ; m. emp., 8; f. emp., 1.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .
505


PLYHOUTB  Co.	NORTH  BRIDGEWATER.
Saddles, Harnesses  and Trunks,  establishments  for the  m. of, 1; har­
nesses  m'd, 20 ; value, $1,000 ; value of stock  used,  $600,; cap.,
$800 ; hands emp., 1.
Railroad •c.ars, Coache , Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs and other 'f'ebicles,
establishments  fos the m. of, 1; number  m'd, 10 ; value, $2,500';
value of stock used, $600 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Confectionery, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $800 ;
lbs. of confectionery Dlftde, 4,000 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of .stock  used,  $2,500 ;  Gravestones  and  Monuments  m'd, value,
$6,422 ; cap., $1,500; m. emp., 7; f. emp., 8.
Master Builders, 8; Buildings erected, 10; value, $5,000; value of the materials used, $3,5 ; hands emp., 22.
Blacksmith Shope, 4 ; value of stock used, $1,775 ; value of work done,
$7,250 ; cap., $2,100 ; hands emp., 10.
Cabinet Mannfactories, 1; value of stock used, $12,000 ; Chairs and Cabinet Ware m'd, value, $80,000 ; cap., $15,000; hpds emp., 80.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of tin ware m'd, $3,000;  cap., $4,000; hands emp., 9.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 108,066 ; pairs of Shoes m'd, 1,009,700 ;
groes value  of stock  used  in  the  manufacture  of  boots  and   shoes,
$996,700; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,466,900; cap.,$190,200 ;
m. ep., 1,039 ; £ emp., 208.
Snuff, Tobacco and Cigars m'd, value, $.550 ; value of stock used,  $265 ;	•
cap., $100 ; m. emp., 1.
Blacking, establishments for the m. of, 8; value of stock used, $25,808.97; gross value of Blacking m'd, $48,806.95; cap., $12,300 ; hands emp.,8. Last  and   Shg Manufactories,   1; value  of   stock  used,  $2,400 ;
Lasts m'd, 4,800 ; value, $12,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Boxes, establishments  for  the  m. of,  1; value  of stock used, $5,000 ;
value of wooden boxes made, $9,000; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 7.
Gas, establishments  for  the  m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,189.19  ;
value of Gas m'd, $4,832.80 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of lee preserved for market, 600 ; value, $900 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2. Bakeries, 2 ; value of stock used, $31,000; 'ralue of Bread m'd, $88,000;
cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw Mills, 2 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  400,000 ; value.
$5,550 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar ket, 50,000 ; value, $150; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4.
64
506	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
PEMBROKE,	PLYKOUTH  co:
Firewood  and  Dark  prepared  for market,  cords, 8,065;  value,  $10,890 ;
cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Farms, 125 ; acres, 3,972 ; value, including Buildings, $255,188 ; acres of land improved, 3,761 ; persons emp., 240.
Unimproved Land, acres, 170. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 62. Woodland, acres, 8,084 ; value, $74,415,
Indian Corn, acres, 148; bush., 5,624 ; value, $11,248. Wheat, acres, It ; bush., 26; value, $65.
Rye, acres, 41; bush., 615; value, $1,280. Barley, acres, 25 ; bush., 897 ; value, $645.50. Oats, acres, 12i; bush., 267 ; value $267.
Potatoes, acres, 139 ; bush., 17,650 ; value, $10,590.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 3t ; 1*sb., 675 ; value,  $405
Onions, acres, ll; bush., 850 ; value, $700.
Carrots, acres, tt ; bush., 887 ; value, $282.20.
Cabbage, acres, 8!; value, $1,450.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,040!; tons  of English  hay,  1,233 ; value,
$25,592.  '
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale  mown,  acres,  5291;  tons  of  wet  meadow  or
swale hay, 411; value, $5,754.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,848; value of apples, $2,355 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,150 ; value of pears, $900 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathei:ed for market, $'65.
Horses,  385;  value,   $38,160;  Oxen  over  four  years  old, 47 ;  Steers
under  four years old, 21 ; value of oxen and steers, $3,965 ; Milch•
Cows, 415 ; Heifers, 12; value of cows and heifers, $18,719 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (7 Bulls,) $210; gallons of Milk sold, 24,421 ; value,  $4,884.20;  lbs. of Dutter  so, 5,648 ; value,
$2,824; lbs. of  Cheese, 1,225 ; value, $806.25.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 378,000; value, $45,360. Pork, dressid, lbs., 77,700 ; value, $12,432. Veal, dressed, lbs., 32,151; value, $4,822.35.
Swine, 232 ; value, $4,618; value of  Eggs sold,  $250.



PEMBROKE.

Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1 ; value of stock used,
$342 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 2,555 ; value, $549 ;
cap., $450 ; m. emp., 1.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	507
•PLYKOUTB  Co.	PEMBROKE,

Wagons and other vehicles, establishments ·for the m. of, I ; number m'd, 4 ; value, $560 ; value of stock used, $500; cap.,$1,000; bands emp., 2.	·
Ink. Manufactorics, l ; value of stock used, $120; gross Ink m'd, 150 ;
value, $800 ; ·cap., $400 ; m. emp., I ; f. emp., 1.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $1J86.; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $925; bands emp., 7.
Medicines, establishments  for  the  m. of, 1; value  of stock  used, $75 ;
value of Medicines m'd, $200; cap., $75; m. emp., 1.
Straw Braid m'd and not made into bonnets or bats, value, $213.    Coffins  and  Burial  Cases,  manufactories  of,  1; value  of  stock  used,
$300;  Coffins made, 60; Talue, $420; cap., $100;  hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 5; value of stock used, $18,000 ;
value of Wooden Boxes made, $35,784; cap.,$26,200; m. emp., 40.
Alewives and Shad taken, 54,575; value, $277.50 ; bands emp., 6.
Saw Mills, 6; feet  of  Lumber ·prepared  for market, 1,056,000;  value,
$11,560 ; Shingles prepared for market, Soo,ooo ; value, $1,000 ;
cap., $5,700 ; bands employed, 9.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,411; value, $4,576.50 ;
cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 80.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 600; value, $100;  bands emp., 1.
Com and other Brooms m'd, 240 ; value, $80; value of the stock con­ sumed, $65 ; cap., $50 ; bands emp., 1.
F 131; acres, 12,7951; value, including Buildings, $437,162 ;
acres of land improved, 5,4981; persons emp., 196.
Unimproved Land, acres, 541.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 9.
Woodland, acres, 6,752 ; value,  $120,648.
Indian Corn,	1671; bush., 4,401;  value,  $6,601.50.
Wheat, acres, 8\ ; bush., 441; value, $89. Rye, acres, 45f ; bush., 495 ; value, $866.25. Barley, acres, 5t; bush., 67 ; value, $100.
Oats, acres, 82 ; bush., 664l; value, $598.05.
Potatoes, 105;  bush., 8,668 ; value,  $5,197.80.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  7i;  bush., 1,715;  value,
$857.50.
Onions, acres, -h ; bush., 20 ; value, $40. Carrots, acres, l ; bush., 826 ; value, $195.60. Cabbage, acres, l ; value,  $165.
Tobacco, acres, l; lbs., 250 ; value, $82.40.
Cranberries, acres, 601; bush., 106l ; value, $818.75.
608	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
PLDIOUTR,	PLYMOUTH Co:

English Mowing, acres, 880!; t.oos of English bay, 888 ; value, $12,l95.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 811; tons of wet meadow or ewale	,
hay,  267};  value, $1,871.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 10,171;  value of apples, $3,026 ;
Pear-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 778 ; valne of pears, $M2 ; all ·
other trees cultivattld t>r their fruit, 957 ; value, $349 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $521.
Merino  Sheep, ,2 ; all other  kinds  of sheep, 287 ; value of all  sheep,
$1,195 ; lbs. of Merino Wool, 71- ; value, $7.50 ; lbs.  of  all  other wool  produced,  581; value, $464.80.	· Horses,   228;  value,   $15,540;  Oxen   over   four   years  old,   79 ; Steers
under  four years old, 47; value of oxen  and steers, $8,187 ; Milch
Cows, SOl; Heifers, 75; value of cows and  heifere, $16,768 ; value of Neat  Stock not  embraced  above,  (168  Bulls, Cows, Goats, &c.,)
$1,617 ; gallons of  Milk sold, 8,808;  value, $660.60; lbs. of  Bntter, '
15,769 ; value,  $5,519.15; Iba.of  Cheese, 1,122;  value, $2HAO.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 25,4$6 ; value, $8,054.72. Pork, dressed, lbs., 76,798; value, $13,822.7'. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 240 ; value, $48.
Veal, dreseed, Iba., 485 ; value, $58.20.
Swine,  278; value,  before  killing,  $18,266 ;  •alue  of  Poultry  sold,
$1,567;  value  of Eggs  sold,  $3,901 ; lbs. of  Honey,  85 ; value,
$20.80 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 61; value, 2.60 ; vnlue of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $828.58.
All other articles m'd jn the family for sale and not before enumerated, value,  $166,
Mackerel   Kits  m'd,  50,000;  value,   $10,000 ; value  of  stock  need,
$3,500;  cap., $7,000;  m. emp., 10.
Grist Mills, 2 ; bush. Grain ground, 2,600 ; value, $8,900; cap., $1,000 ;
hands emp., 2.

II


PLTIIOUTH.
Cotton Mills, S; number of Spindles, 8,120; Cotton  consumed,  lbs., 891,386 ; gross value of all stock used, $806,983; yards of Duck m'd1 • 502,074 ; gross value of  cloth tn'd, $368,103;  lbs.of Cotton Batting  m'd, 70,000;  value,  $15,000 ; m. emp., 87 ; f. emp., 62.
Spool Cotton, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $82,000;
value of cotton m'd, $129,000 ; cap., $85,000 ; hands emp., 75.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	509
PLDlOUTR   Co.	PLYHOUT.EL

Woolleo Mills, 1; sets of Machinery, 4; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 118,000, groea value of stock used, $53,600 ; yds. of Flannel or Blanketing m'd, 180,000 ; cap.,.$80,000;  m. emp., 30; £ emp., 15.
Bolling, SliUing and Nail Mills, 1; Machines for the m. of nails, 10 ; tons of nails m'd, 300;  value, $48,000;  cap., $30,000 ; hands  emp, 10.
Tack and Brad Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $39,604 ; tons of
taco and brads  m'd, 251; value,  $68,104; cap., $88,800 ; hands
.  emp., 87.	.
Printing and Newspaper  Establishments,  2 ; value of  stock  used,
$8,136 ; newspapers printed, (Old Colony Sentinel, Old Colony Memorial and Plymouth Rock,) 2 ; issued weekly ; gross value of
newspapers, $3,625 ; cap., $8,000;  value or all other  printing  done,
$3,100;  m. emp.,  11; £ emp., 2.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$600; daguerreotypes,  ambrotypes  and  photographs   taken, 10,000;
value, $2,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; m.emp., 8.
Cordage Manufaclories, 4; value of stock used, $279,050; cordage m'd, tons, i,245!; value, $473,820 ; cap., $204,800; hands emp., 191.
Mast  and  Spar  Yards  or  Sheds,  1;  value  of   materials  used,   $200 ;
mast and spars m'd, 40 ; value, $600; hands emp., 1.
Sail Lofts, 2 ; sails made of American fabric, 14; value of the fabric,
$1,850; value of the sails, $1,650 ; sails made of foreign fabric, 10; value of the fabric, $1,550 ; value of the sails, $1,782 ; hands euip., 8. Clothing, establishments for the m.	1; value or stock  used, $1,500 ;
value of clothing m'd, $3,000 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 5.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of articles from, 1; value of atock used, $800 ; value of articles m'd, $2,500 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 8.
Master Builders, 17 ; Buildings erected, 4 ; value, $3,050 ; value of materials used, $2;050 ; hands emp., 16.
Blacksmith Shops, 6 ; value of stock used, $1,950 ; value o( work done,
$5,750 ; cap., $1,850 ; hands emp., 11.
Tm Ware Manufactories, 2; value of stock used, $10,400 ; value of tin
• ware m'd, $11,500 ; cap., $1,0; hands emp., 5.
Boots, pa.Ira of. all kinds m'd, 85; Shoes, pain of all kinds m'd, 69,018 ;
gross value of  stock  used,  $81,510 ; value  of  boots  and shoes m'd,
• $100,650; cap., $3,775 ; m. emp., 96 ; £ emp., 80.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, 250,000 ; value, $20,000 ; cap., $800 ;
bands emp., 8.
510	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.

PLntOUTH,	PLYllOUTH Co.

Blocks and  Pumps, establishment for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$100 ; value of blocks and·pumps m'd, $.400 ; cap., $50 ;	nds emp., l.
Casks, estabhments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; casks m'd, 4,400 ; value,. $1,860 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 2.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,150 ; coffins made, 158; value, $2,277 ; cap., $1,250 ; hands emp., 4.
,   Planing  Mills and  establishments  for the m. of  Sashes, Doors  and  Blinds,
1 ; value of work done, $500 ; cap., $500; hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $700 ; value of wooden boxes made, $1,400 ; cap., $1,000; in. emp., 2.
Gas, establishments for th  m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value
of gas m'd, $4,800 ; cap., $40,000 ; hands emp., S.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 2 ; ton of ice pre­ served for · market, 1,170; value,  $975 ; cap., $1,175; hands  emp., 45.	•        .
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $10,000 ; value of Bread m'd, $19,050 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 7.	·
Mackerel  and  Cod  Fisherie  , ves@els  emp.  in, 50 ; tonnage, 8,597H ;
. quintals' of Codfish taken, 35,918; value, $269,282 ; value of Cod Liver  Oil  sold, $25,058 ; value  of  Salt consumed,  SSb,000 ; cap.,
$150,000 ; hands emp., 433.
Shell Fish, bushels taken, 1,025; value, $826; hands emp., 12. Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 20; tonnage, 1,713H ;
value, $10,000 ; amount received for freight, $35,969 ; hands emp., 80. Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 4,670 ; value,_$29,610;
hands emp., 88.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 1,050 ; value,  $280 ; hands  emp., 2.
Farms, 186 ; acres, 4,344 ; value, including Buildings, $366,t 45 ; acres of land improved, 6,619 ; persons emp., 246.
Unimproved Land, acres, 409. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 64.
Woodland, acres, 40,107 ; value, $188,246.
Indian Corn, acres, 16li; bush., 6,086 ; value, $9,054. Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush ., 42 ; value, $84.
Rye, acres, 30i ; bush., 842 ; value, $641. Barley, acr;es, 7l ; bush., 150 ; value, $192. Oats, acres, 8lf ; bush., 985 ; value,  $787.
Potatoes,	res, 781; bush., 7,855 ; value, $5,897.
Turnips  cultivaed  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  17t ; bush.,  6,042 ; value,
$3,027.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	511
PLTKOUTR  Co.	PI.TKOUTR. •
Oniooe, acres, 21 ; bush., 535 ; value, $535. Carrots,	8f ; bush., 11239 ; value, $652. c..hbage, acres, If ; value, $825.
Market Gardening, acres, 3 ; value, $500.
Beeca  and other  esculent  vegetables,  acres,  2jj ; bush.,  2,000 ; value,
$3,810.
Cranberries, acres, 101; bush., 153; value, $484.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,0541;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,218 ; value,
$20,710.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 112 ; tons of wet meadow  or swale
lay, 1221 ; value, $1,225.	· '
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 289 ; tons of salt hay, 299! ; value, $8,006. Apple-trees cultivated  for  their fruit, 10,981 ; value of  apples, $5,782 ;
Pear--trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,745 ; value of pears, $2,395 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 574 ; value of fruit, $340 ; value of Nuta or Berries cultivated or gathered for toarket, $3,000.
Sheep, 508 ; value, $1,779 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,687 ; value, $924. Hones, 829 ; value, $28,140 ; .Oxen over four years old, 70 ; Steers mtder four years old, 24 ; value of oxen and steen, $5,760 ; Milch Cows, 406 ; Heifers, 68 ; value of cows and heifers, $20,490 ; value  of Neat Stock not embraced above, (7 Bulls,) $800 ; gallons of Milk sold,  88,«0 ; value,  $8,466 ;  lbs.  of  Butter   sold,  5,940 ; value,
$2,498.	.	.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 18,670 ; value, $1,992. Pork, dreseed, lbs., 94,065 ; value, $15,127. Mutton, drel!sed, lbs., 49,400 ; value, $5,890. Veal, drel!sed, lbs., 40,080; value, $5,110.
Swine, 228 ; value, 3,602 ; value of Poultry sold, $829 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,882 ; lbs. of Hney, 108; value, $48 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 2 ; value, $2 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $750.
Neck  Stocks and Ti establishmenta  for the m. of, 2 ; dozen  m'd,
; value of stock ueed, $18,500 ; value of stocks and ties m'd,
$27,000;  m. emp., 1; £ emp., 60.
Lobsten sold, 105,000; value, $10,500 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 21. Rivets, estabUahmenta for the m. of, 2 ; tons m'd, 383 ; value of stock med, $47,500 ; value of riveta m'd, $110,118.; cap., $66,ood'; hands
emp., 15.
Zinc, eetablishmenta  for  the  m.  of,  1; value  of  tock   ueed, $22,400 ; t.oll8 m'd, 100 ; value of  zinc  m'd,  $31,500 ;  cap.,  $7,500;  hands emp., 8.
512
STATISTICS  OF THE
[186:i.
PLYKPTON.

PLTilOUTH Co.


PLYMPTON.

Cotton Mills, 1; Cotton Spindles, 1,752; lbs. Cotton coosum 90,000 ; gross value of all the stock used, $58,500; lbs. of Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 82,500 ; gross value, $67,875 ; cap., $12,000; m. emp., 5; f. emp., 18.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $850 ; value of work done,
$1,175; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs m'd, 500 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of boots m'd,
$2,000 ; cap.,$500 ; m. emp., 5 ; . f. emp., .S.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $5,500 ; cap., $6,500 ; m. emp., 9.
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 585,000 ; value,
$7,310; Laths, Clapboarda, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 800,000 ; value, $900 ; cap., $8,100 ; hands emp., 9.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 4M ; value, $1,588.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 4,440 ; value, $422.
Farms, 129 ; acres, 4,878 ; value, inclug Buildings, $150,828 ; acres of land improved, 2,521; penons emp., 187.
Unimproved Land, acres, 948. Unimprovable Land, acres, 480. Woodland,  acres, 2,040;  value, $86,400.
Indian Corn, acres, 188 ; bush., 8,494 ; value, $5,241.
Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 18; value, $86. Rye, acres, 211; bush., 164-t ; value, $828. Barley, acres, 8 ; bush., 25 ; value, $45.
Oats, acres, 88 ; bush., 672 ; value, $500.
Potatoes, acres, 54 ; bush., 8,852; value, $2,889. Cranberries, acres, 10 ; bush., 5; value, $15.
English  Mowing,  acres,  6421;   tons  of   English  hay1  492;   value,
$12,800.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 279 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 288; value, $2,859.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,928; value of apples, $1,463 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 84; value of Nuts or Berries culti.vdled or gathered for market, $50.
Sheep, 88 ; value, $150 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 120; value, $96.
Horses, 88; value, $7,870 ; Oxen over four years old, 61 ; Steers under four years old, 88 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,800 ; Milcll Cows, 190 ; Heifers, 62 ; value of cows and heifers, $9,719 ; gallons of Milk  sold,  1,295 ; value,  $259 ; lbs.  of  Butter  sold, 2,484; value,
$978;  lbs. of  Cheese,  665•; value, $166.    ·
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSEITS.	518
PLYHOUTB  Co.	RoCHESTER.

Beef; dressed, lbs., 18,860 ; value, $2,074.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 87,164 ; value, $7,482.
, veal,	.lbs.,  144;  value,  $20.
Swine, 131 ; value, $1,689 ; value of Poultry- sold, 1857; value of  Eggs sold, $1,837 ; lbs. of Honey, 105 ; value, $35 ; bush. of Beans, 180 ; value, $390.


ROCHESTER.

Blacksmith Shops,   ; value of stock used, $700 ; value of wotk  done,
$1,500 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 3.
Snuff, Tobacco  and  Cigars  m'd, value, $.500; value  of  the  stock  used,
$200 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 3.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 219,600 ;  value, $549;  hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 11; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,980,000 ; value,
$8,050 ; number of Laths, Clapboards, Shingles and Staves pre­ pared for market, 505,000 ; value, $1,060 ; value of all other Lum­ ber, $100 ; cap., $4,800; hands emp., 19.
Firewood  and·Bark  prepared  for market, cords,  1,478;  value,  $4,888.
Charooal m'd, bush., 10,085 ; value, $1,455.
Farms,  216 ;  acres,  17,791;  value,  including   Buildings,  $328,301;
acres of  land improved, 5,680;  persons employed, 324.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,981. Unimprovable Land, acres, 804. Woodland, acres, 4,238 ; value, $83,868.
lndutn Com, acres, 308f ; bush., 6,664 ; value, $6,664.
Wheat, acres, 171; bush., 207 ; value, $414. Rye, acres, 129f ; ·bush., 919 ; value, $919. Barley, acres, 38f ; bush., 609 ; value, $609. Buckwheat, acres, 11; bush., 14; value, $U.20. Oats, acres, 72f ; bWlh., 1,231 ; value, $719.20.
Potatoe!, acres, 95!; bush., 7,444 ; value, $5,585.
Turnips cultivated 88 a field crop, acres, 8 ; bush., 992 ; value, $320.
Carrots, acres, f ; bush., 156 ; yalue, $68.
Cranberries, acres, 21i; bush., 631; value, $1,578.
English  Mowing,  acres,  l,077f ; tons  of  English  hay,  838f ; value,
$16,775.	'
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 348 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 279 ; value, $2,237.
66
514	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
SCITUATE,	PLY»OUTH  Co.

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,675; value of apples, $1,890 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 702 ; value of pears, $69 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 830 ;  value  of  fruit,  $264; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $142.
Sheep, 401; value, $1,203 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,272 ; value, $636. Horses, 165 ; value, $12,442 ; Oxen over four years old, 68; Steers under four years old, 30 ; value of oxen and steers, $5,638 ; Milch Cows, 322 ; Heifers, 68; value of cows and heifers, $10,498;  value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, $1,082 ; gallons of Milk sold, 110; value, $22;  lbs. of  Butter  sold, 8,980 ; value,  $3,551 ; lbs. of
-Cheese, 1,075; value, $161.25.	· Beef, d.rssed, lbs., 17,525 ; value, $1,402. Pork, dressed, lbs., 66,648 ; value, $7,997.76.
Swine, 212 ; value, $2,567 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,269 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,108; lbs. of Honey, 143; value, $42.90 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $794.
Grist Mills, 5 ; bush. Grain ground, 6,600 ; value, $4,900 ; cap., $2,400 ·; hands emp., 5.


'	SCITUATE.
Boats, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of materials ued, $1,200 ; boats built, 9 ; value, $2,400 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Sail Lofts, 1; sails  made of American  fabric, 15 ; value of the fabric,
·$1,iOO ; value of the sails, $1,700 ; cap., $150; hands emp., 1,
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 1; value, $700 ; valse of materials used, $450 ; hands emp., 1.	.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $950 ; v.alue of work done,
$2,200 ; cap., $550 ; hands emp., 3.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $450 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,050 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 11,330 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 55,415 ; gross value of stock used, $116,034 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $142,811; cap., $5,450 ; m. emp., 74 ; f. einp., 32.
Ice for market, establishments for the• preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved, 400 ;· value, $1,000 ; cap., $400; hands emp., 1,
Mackerel taken, bbls., 40 ; value, $600 ; quintals Codfish taken, 441 ; value, $2,956 ; value of Salt consumed in the mackerel and cod fisheries, $200 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 12.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETf S.	515  .•
PLTIIOUTil  Co.	,SCITUATE.

Coastwise  or  Carryirg  Trade, Vessels  engaged  in, 2 ; tonnage,  120 ;
value, $1,500 ; amount received for Freight, $800 ; hands emp., 4.
Saw  Mills,  1;  feet   of  Lumber   prepared   for   market,  5,000; value,
$230 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 500 ; value,  $2,193 ;
cap., $500 ; hands emp., 14.
Farms, 241 ; acres, 7,497 ; value, including Buildings, $433,163; acres of land improved, 7,297 ; persons emp., 217.
Unimproved  Land, ·acres, 200.
Woodland, acres, 1,159!; value,  $29,308.
Indian Com, acres, 183t ; bush., 6,448; value, $10,904.
Wheat, acres, 1l; bush., 29 ; value, $58.
Rye, acres, 14!; bush., 274!; value,·$481.25. Barley, acres, 32i ; bush., 482! ; value, $724. Oats, acres, 3f ; bush., 71; value, $71.
Po&atoes, acres, 89t ; bush., 8,555; value, $6,416.
Turnips cultivated as field crop, acres, 9t ; bush., 2,374 ; value, $950.
Onions, acres, 241 ; bush., 6,854!; value, $13,701.
Carrots, acres,  ; bush., 108 ; value, $108.
Cabbage, acres, 4f ; value, $545.
Winter Squash, acres, 3 ; value, $470.
Market Gardening, acres, If ; value of products,   $248.
Beets and  other esculent vegetables, acres, ll ; bush., 209! ; value,
$818.
Tobacoo, acres, ..)"l ; lbs., 6 ; value, $3.
Cranberries, acres, 6t ; bush., 180!; value, $479.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,184;  tons of  English  hay,  1,267!;  value,
$35,490.
Wet  Me&Iow or  Swale mown, acres; 207!; tons  of wet  meadow  or
ewale hay, 199 ; value, $11988.	·
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 1,048; tons of salt hay, 958 ; value, $12,442. A.Pple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,244 ; value of apples, $2,746; Pear-trees cultivated for  their fruit,  1,112 ;  value  of pears,  $561; all other  trees cultivated  for their  fruit, 1,881 ;  value, $740 ; value  of
Nute or Berries  cultivated or	thered  for market,  $583.
Sheep, 658 ; value, $5,264 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 2,144 ; value, $1,586. Horses, 255 ; value, $16,805 ; Oxen over four years old, 188; Steers under four years old, 80 ; value of oxen and steers, $13,941; Milch Cows, 860 ; Heifers, 56 ; value of cows and heifers; $20,521 ; value
of  Neat Stock not embraced  above, (8 Bulls, 77 Yearlings,)  $1,671;
gallons  of   Milk   sold,  8,542;   value,  $1,708 ;  lbs.  of  Butter sold,
8,742 ; value, $3,056 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,885 ; value, $888.
516	STA'l'ISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
SouTa  SCITUATE.	PLYMOUTH Co.

Beef, dressed, lbs., 186,945; value, $18,702. Pork, dressed, lbs., 94,280; value, $16,970. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 6,050 ;·value, $725.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 10,900,;  value,  $1,888.
Swine, 126 ; value, $1,7•6 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,989 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,742 ; lbs. of Honey, 478; value, $159 ; value of un­ enumerated articles of Farm Produce, from 408 gardens, $6,030.
Stove Polish, establishments for the m. of, 1;  gross  m'd,  1,598; value, $8,995 ; value of stock used, $2,400 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., S.
Mose, collected from rocks in the ocean, lbs., 465,980 ; value, $22,558 ; m. emp., 59 ; £ emp., 20.
Lobsters taken, 128,000; value, $4,753 ; hands emp., 18. Herring taken, bbls., 8,153; value, $19,838; hands emp., 4.0. Needle  Work, value,  $2,880 ; £ emp., 50.
Grist Mille, 8 ; bush. of Corn ground, 10,535 ; bush. of Rye ground, 8,324; bush. of Barley, 378; lbs. of Cob  Corn, 24,000 ; value of  toll for grinding, $1,612 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 3.


SOUTH   SCITUATE.

Tack Manufactoriee, 2 ; value of stock used, $13,000 ; tons of Tacks and Brads m'd, 70 ; value, $17,500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 8.
Ship Yards, 1; value of materials used, $8,000 ; vessels launched, 2 ;
tonnage, 290 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 16.
Blacksmith Shope, 4 ; value of.stock used, $5,000 ; value of work done,
$8,800 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Boots,  pairs  of all kinds  m'd,  18,510 ;  Shoes, pairs  of  all kinds  m'd,
82,580 ; value of  stock used  in  the manufacture  of  boots  and shoes,
$90,891;  value of  boots and shoes m'd, $147,282 ; hands emp., 70.
Brick Yarde, 1; bricks m'd, 18,000 ; value, Sl,200 ; cap., $300; hands emp., 4.
Boxes and Trunk Woods, establishments for the m. of, 5 ; value of stock used, $10,200 ; wooden boxes and trunk woods made, value, $27,100. Saw  Mille, 7 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market, 745,000 ; value,
$9,400.	.
Firewood  and Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 763 ; value, $8,052 ; •
hands emp., 89.
Farms, 225 ; acres, 8,898 ; value, including Buildings, $417,068 ; acres improved, 4,825 ; persons emp., 100.
•
1865.)	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	517
PLYMOUTH  Co.	SOUTH   SCITUATE.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,086. Woodland, acres, 2,264 ; value, $103,938.
Indian Corn, acres, 160 ; bush., 4,656 ; value, $5,811.
Wheat, acres, 5l ; bush., 73 ; value, $146. Rye, acres, 29 ; bush., 854 ; value, $495. Barley, acres, 11 ; bush., 99 ; value, $140. Oats, acres, ll ; bush., 22 ; value, $11.
Potatoes, acres, 90f ; bush., 8,150 ; value, $6,402.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1 ; bush., 285; value,  $140.
Onions, acres, 2\ ; bush., 1,000 ; value, $1;500. Carrots, acres,  1; bush., 200 ; value, $750."
English Mowing, acres, 1,169 ; tons of  English hay, 1,014 ;  value,
$15,210.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 425 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 840 ; value, $2,720.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 120;  tons of  salt hay, 120 ; value, $1,452•
.Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,043; value of apples, $7,075 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 71 ; value of pears, $150 ; value - of  Nuts or .Berries cultivated or.gathered for market, $178.
Sheep, 246 ; value, $1,812 ; lbe. of Wool produced, 984 ; Talue, $688. Horses, 202 ; value, $14,225 ; Oxen over four years old, 90; St<iel'II under four years old, 71 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,964 ; Milch Cows, 284 ; Heifers, 56 ; value of cows and heifers, $15,575; gallons
of Milk sold, 1,576 ; value, $815 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 5,325 ; value,
$1,567;  lbe. Cheese,  183;  value,  $27. Beef, dressed, lbe., 182,700 ; value, $18,270. Pork, dressed, lbe., 68,987; value, $8,597. Mutton, dressed, )be., 7,000 ; value, $700.
Veal, dressed, lbe., 2,500 ; value, $250.
Swine, 150; value, $2,799 ; value of Pou)try sold, $1,125; value of Eggs sold, $1,447 ; Honey, )be., 85 ; value, $6; value of _unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, (gardens,) $6,000.
Description and quantity of Cloth m'd in the family, yards of Flannel, 10 ; value, $10 ; All other articles m'd in the  family  for sale  and not  before  enumerated, Yam, $14.
Coats, Vests, Pants, &c., m'd, :value, $8,966. Bead Work, value, $850.
Worsted Work, value, $425. Fitting  Shoos, value, $600.
Ship Timber, tons, 50 ; value, $500.
•
•

518
STAISTICS  OF THE
[1865.
WAREB.A.111.

PLYMOUTH  Co.


WAREHAM.

Rolling, Slitting and Nail Mills, 5 ; value of stock used, $451,070 ; Iron m'd and not made into nails, tons, 275 ; value, $19,068 ; Machines for the manufacture of nails, 258; tons  of  Nails  m'd, 5,281 ; value, $695,762 ; cap., $500,000; hands emp., 405.
Paper Manufactories, 1; tons of stock consumed, 26 ; value, $284 ; Wrapping Paper m'd, tons, 18; value, $975 ; cap., $16,000 ; m. emp., 11; f. emp., 2.
Daguerreian  and  Photographic  Establishments,  1; value of  stock used,
$10 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 200 ; value, $80 ; cap.,
$100;  hands emp., 1.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for m. of, .2 ; number of harnesses  m'd,  12 ; value,  $850 ; value  of stock  used,  $125 ; cap.,
$400 ; hands emp., 2.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, ·Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for the  m. of, 2 ; wagons  m'd, 8; value, $640; value .  of stock used, $280 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 5.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock. used, $300 ; value of clothing m'd, $500 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 2.
Master Builders, 4 ; Buildings erected, 1; value, $1,000; value of materials used, $700; hands  emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $550 ; value of  work done,
$1,600 ; cap., $1,400 ; hands emp., 8.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; casks m'd, 104,808; value, $18,815; cap., $4,200;  hands emp., 21. Coffins and  Burial  Cases of all kinds, manufactories  of, 1; value   of
stock  used,  $350 ;  coffins   made,   75 ; value,   $1,000 ; cap.,  $500  ;
hands emp., 1.
Alewives, Shad, and Salmon taken, 400,000 ; value, $640 ; hands emp., 3.
Coaste or  Carrying  Trade, Vessels  engaged  in, 4 ; tonnage,  532 s
value,   $22,500 ;  amount   received   for   Freight,   $22,700 ;  hant:i.
emp., 19.
Saw ])fills, 1; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market, 875,000 ; value,
$3,375 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket,·642,000 ; value, $3,200 ; cap., $3,500 ; hands emp;, 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for markt, cordil, 2,160 ; vu.lue,  $7,560;
· cap., $5,000; hands emp., 70.
Farms, 50; acres, 17,826 ; val\ie, including Buildings, $500,000 ; acres improved, 1,200 ; persons emp., 75.
•
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	519
PLTXOUTB    Co.	WEST  BRIDGEWATER.

Unimproved Land, acres, 1,000. '(jnimprovable Land, acres, 500.
WoodJand, acres, 14,000 ; value, $140,000.    .
lodian Com, acres, 98; bush., 2,080 ; value, $2,030. Rye, acres, 70 ; bush., 460 ; value, $460.
Barley, acres, 4 ; bush., 70 ; value, $70.
eats, acres, 3; bush·., 65 ; value, $50.
Potatoes, acres, 60 ; bush., 2,400 ; value, $1,900.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 6 ; bush., 686 ; value, $340. Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 230 ; value, $75.
Cabbage, acres, 3; value, $580.
Market Gardening. acres, 2!; value of products, $300. Cranberries, acres, 36; bush., 112; value,  $336.
English Mowing, acres, 350 ; tons English hay, 300 ; value, $6,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 250 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 225 ; value, $1,800.	·
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 550 ; tons, 550 ; value, $4,400.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,200 ; value of apples, $500 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 340; value of pears, $100.
Sheep, 120 ; value, $480 ; lbs. of Wool produced,  819;  value, $319.
Horses, 160 ; value, $12,000 ; Asses and Mules, 8 ; value of  Asses  and Mules, $50 ; Oxen over four years old, 40 ; Steers under four years old, 12 ; value of oxen and steers, $2,500 ; Milch Cows, 250 ; Heifers, 52 ; value of cows and heifers, $8,500 ; gallons of Milk sold, 10,000 ; value,    2,400;  lbs.of  Butter sold, 2,500;  value, $1,200.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 160,000 ; value, $24,500. Pork, dreseed, lbe., 110,000 ; value, $17,600. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 3,000 ; value, $600.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 7,600 ; value, $760.
Swine, 300 ; l'alue, $,.000 ; valtte of Poultry sold, $750 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,500.




WEST  BRIDGEWATER.

Hllow Ware and Castings, other than  pig  iron, Furnaces  for the m.  of, 3 ; value of stock used, $26,700 ; tons of Hollow Ware and other Castings m'd, 520 ; value, $62,000 ; Ollp., $23,5QO ; hands emp., 47.
•
520	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
WEST BRIDGEWA.TGR.	PLftlOUTB    Co.

Carnage  Wheels,  manufaetories  of, 1;  value  of  stock  used,  $200 ;
value, $500 ; cap., $500 ;.hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,505 ; bbls. soft soap m'd, 600 ; value, $2,400 ; lbs. hard soap m'd, 5,000 ; value,
$400 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 4.
Master Builders, 2 ; hands emp., 8.
Blacksmith's Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $500 ; value of work done, $1,850 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 6,000; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 124,900; gross value of stock used, $104,500 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $157,900 ; cap., $35,000 ; m. emp., 113 ; f. emp., 31.
Boxes,  establishments  for  the  m. of, 1; value  of stock  used,  $120 r
value of  Wooden  Boxes made, $280;  m. emp., i•
Saw  Mills, 4 ; feet  of  Lumber   prepared  for  market,  250,000 ; value,
$4,500 ; Shingles, 800,000; value, $2,775; value of Cedar for Boat Boards, $1,000 ; cap., $3,500 ;·hands emp., 8.
Firewood   and  Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords, 800;  value, $8,480  ;
cap., $2,200; hands emp., 12. Charcoal m'd, bush., 4,000 ; value, $850.
Farms,   145 ;  acres,   4,428;   value,   including   Buildings,  $415,953;
acres improved, 2,337 ; persons erop., 200.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,922. Unimprovable  Land, acres,  100. Woodland, acres, 3,630 ; value, $124,038.
Indian Corn, acres, 145 ; bush., 5,950 ; value, $ll,900.
Wheat, acres, 16; bush., 268 ; value, $670. Rye, acres, 81 ; bush., 495 ; value, $990. Barley, acres, 36 ; bush., 800 ; value, $1,200. Oats, acres, 26 ; bu1.1h., 586 ; value, $586.
Potatoes, acres, 100 ; bush., 9,910 ; value,  $7,480.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2!; bush., 850 ; value $168.
Onions, acres, 4; bush., 710 ; value, $1,420.
Cabbage, acres, f ; value; $125.
Winter  Squash, acres, t ; value, $40.
Market Gardening, ll ; value of products, $150.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 2}; bush., 176 ; value, $105.
Tobacc_o,  acres,  l; lbs., 375 ; value, $125.
Cranberries, acres, 5 ; bush., 60 ; value, $150.
English Mowing, acres, 805 ; tons of English ·hay, 704 ; value, $24,640.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 962 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 783 ; value, $8,796.
•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	521
SUJ'FOLK  Co.	BOSTON.

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,400 ; value of apples, $3,000 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 80; value of pears, $24 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $300.
Sheep, 82 ; value, $20 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 160 ; value, $160.
Horses, 149 ; value, $11,000 ; .Asses and Mules, 1; value, $25 ; Oxen over four years old, 100 ; Steers under four years old, 17 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,900 ; Milch Cows, 260 ; Heifers, 87 ; value of
cows and  heifers, $18,850 ; gallons of  Milk  sold, 10,875 ;  value,
$2,275; lbs. of Butter eold,·11,400 ; value, $4,845 ; lbs. of Cheese, 850 ; value, $87.50• .
Beef, dressed, lbs., 57,525 ; value, $7,190. Pork, dreeeed, lbs., 71,148 ; value, $11,857. Veal, dressed, lbs., 19,508 ; value, $2,840.
Swine, 185; value, $2,661 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,890 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,110.
All other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, Straw  Braid; value, $2,500.
Eyleting Machines, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; m'd, value, $3,100; value of stock used, $1,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 1.




S U F F O L K	C O U N T Y .


BOSTON.

Cotton Mills, 1 ; lbs. of Cotton Batting m'd, 150,000 ; value, $45,000 ; • cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 12.
Calico and Mousselaine de Laine, establishments for printing, 1; yards of Calico printed, 100,000 ; value before printing, $125,000 ; value after printing, $140,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 14 ; f. emp., 4.
Woollen Mills, 1 ; value of Horse Blankets m'd, $10,000 ; e&}.>., $3,000 ;
m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 10.	·
American  Worsteds, establishments  for  m. of, 4 ; value  of  stock  used,
$66,000 ; value of Knit Hoods, Shawls, &c., $112,000 ; cap., $38,000 ; m. emp., 15 ; £ emp., 200.   ·	·
66
•
522	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[18651
BOSTON.	SUFFOLK   Co.

Worsted Goods, establishments for m. of, 6 ; value of stock used, $2,800 ; value of goods m'd, $4,500; cap., $2,000; f. emp.,  10.
Linen Collars and Cuffs for ladies, manufactories of, 10 ; value of stock used, $22,000 ; value, $47,000 ; cap., $24,000; .f. emp., 63.
Head-nets and Head-dresses, manufactories, of, 5 ; value of stock used,
$35,400 ; nets	and	head-dresses  m'd,  dozen, 118,250 ; value,
$54,000 ; cap., $22;500 ; m. emp., 15 ; f. emp., 98.
Feathers and Artificial Flowers, manufactories of, 1_; value.of stock  used,  $1,000 ; value  of  Ladies'  Feathers  m'd,  $3,000 ; cap., $1,000  ;
f. emp., 13.
Worsted Dress Braids, Worsted mbroidery  Braids and  Elastic Cords and   Webs,   manufactories   of,   4 ; · value   of   Worsted   Yarn used,
$74,500 ; articles for ladies wear m'd, 32,000 ; value, $119,0CO ; cap.,
$51,000 ; m. emp., 10 ; f. emp., 90.	.
Bonnet Ribbons, manufaetories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $330,000 ;  value of Bonnet  Ribbons  m'd,  $550,000 ; cap.,  $22,000 ; m.  emp., · 85 ;  f. emp., 130.
Dress Trimmings,  establishments for m. of, 5 ; value of stoc used,
$20,100 ; value of dress trimmings m'd, $49,000; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 71.
Rolling, Slitti,ng and Nail ?tfills, 2 ; value of stock used,  $1,850,000 ; tons of  iron m'd and not  made  into nails, 22,400 ; value of  iron   m'd,
$2,500,000 ; cap., $600,000 ; hands emp., 650.
Forges, 3 ; value of stock used, $90,000 ; tons of Bar Iron, Anchors, Chain Cables, and other articles of wrought  iron m'd, 1,050 ;  value,
$168,000 ; cap., $23,000 ; hands emp., 80.
Hollow Ware.and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $466,500 ; tons of hollow ware and castings m'd, 6,159 ; value, $763,000 ; cap., $185,000 ; hands emp., 3H.
Cotton, Woollen and other machinery, establishments for the m. of, 38 ;
1	gross value  of stock used, $843,562 ; v&l.ue of machinery   m'd, $1,503,- 784 ; cap., $485,700 ; hands emp., 721.
Locomotives, Steam-Engines and Boilers, establishments for m. of, 13; value of stock used, $2,271,000; locomotives built, 37 ; steam-engines built, 241 ; boilers, 371; value, $3,4H,OOO ; cap., $719,000 ; hands emp., 1,468.
Axes, Hatchets and other Edge Tools, 2 ; value of stock used, $3,500 ; value of axes, hatchets and other edge tools m'd, $7,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp , 6.	·
Files, establishments for m. of, 3; value of stock used, $13,350 ; dozens f files m'd, 10,650 ; value, $28,970 ; cap., $17,000 ; hands emp., 29.
• •
1865.]	.   INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS.	523
SUJ'FOLJt  Co.	BOSTON.

:Mechanics' Tools m'd and  not  elsewhere  enumerated,  value,  $434,875 ;
value ofstock used, $267,500 ; cap., $148,500 ;·bands emp., 196.
Cutlery, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $2,500 ;
value of Pocket Cutlery m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $2,000; hands emp., 2.
Lock Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; locks m'd, doz., 270;
value, $1,200 ; cap., $250; bands eQlp., 1.
Metallic Gas  Pipes,  Water  Pipes  and  Steam  Pipes; manufactories   of, 2 ; value of stock used, $350,000; feet of pipe of variou.'J kinds m'd, 1,575,000 ; value, $650,000 ; cap., $225,000 ; hands emp., 190.
Iron Railing, Iron Fences and"Iron Safes, shops for the m. of, 9 ; value of stock used, $47,550 ; value of iron railing, iron fences and iron safes m'd, $129,500; cap., $62,800 ; bands emp., 81.
Copper Manufactories, 10 ; value of Pumps, Pipes, Soda Fountains, &c.,
•  m'd, $332,835 ; cap., $101,000 ; hands emp., 100.
Brass Foundries, 12; value of stock used, $452,250 ; value of Machine
Castings, &c., $599,300 ;.cap., $156,400;  hands  emp.,  153.
Gas, Oil and Kerosene Fixtures and Lamps, manufa:ctories of, 4 ; value of stock  used, $158,215 ; value  of articles  m'd, $288,140 ;   cap.,
$75,000 ; hands emp., 180.	.
Britannia  Ware,  establishments  for  the m. of, 2 ; value  of  stock   used,
$11,000 ; value of Lamps, Teapots, &c., m'd, $32,000 ; cap., $10,500 ;
hands emp., 14.
Corsets of all kinds, manufactories of, 4; value of stock used, $100,675 ; corsets m'd, dozen, 13,450 ; value, $199,600 ; cap., $23,000 ; m. emp., 9 ; £ emp., 184.
Hoop  Skirts, establishments  for  the  m. of, 5 ; value of .stock    used,
$148,963 ;hoop  skirts  m'd,  dozen,  23,228;   value,   $257,768;  cap.,
$28,150;  m.  emp., 14;  £ emp., 159.	·
Gla..Q.fl Manufactories, 9 ; value of stock used, $248,300 ; value of glass m'd, $611,600 ; cap.,  $232,000 ; bands  emp., 832.
Chemical Preparations, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $101,- 200 ; value of chemical preparations m'd, $122,000; cap., $52,500 ; hands emp., ·19.	·
Paper Manufactories, 1; value of Paper Hangings m'd, $15,000 ; cap.,
$3,000 ; m. emp., 7 ; £ emp., 1.
Paper Collars, manufactories of, 4 ; value of stock used, $101,297 ; collars m'd, 11,197,660 ; value, $178,035; cap., $315,500; m. emp., 13; £ emp., 84.
Organs, Melodeons and Harmoniums, manufactorics of, 4 ; value of stock used, $176,000 ; organs m'd, 9.09 ; melodeons and harmoniums, 2,500 ; value, $858,000; cap., $231,000; hands emp., 205.
•	..	•

524	STATISTICS  OF THE	(18651
BOSTON.	SUFFOLK  Co.

Pianoforte Manufactories, 17 ; value of stock U8ed, $660,250 ; piano­ fortes m'd, 5,151; value, $1,514,974 ; cap., $591,000 ; establishments for the m. of detached parts of piano-fortes, 5 ; value of detached parts m'd, $81,700 ; value of stock used, $48,200 ; cap., $21,100 ; other Musical  Instrument  Manufactories,  8 ; value  of stock U8ed,
$27,740 ; Band Instruments, Guitars, &c., m'd, 946 ; value, $76,310 ;
cap., $54,400 ; hands emp" 866.
Printing  and  Newspaper  Establishments,  89 ;  value  of  stock used,
$1,270,059 ; newspapers and periodicals printed, 103, (Advent Her­ ald, 10.; Advertiser, d., ,.-w. and 10.; Advocate of  Peace, m. ;  Amer­
ican Educational Monthly, m.; American Messenger, m. ; American Miscellany, 10. ; American Phrenological Journal, m. ; American Railway Times ; American Union, w.; Americanrishter Botschafter ; Atlantic Monthly, m.; Ballou's Dollar Monthly, m.; Banner of Light. w.; Boston Almanac, !I·; Boston Cultiv;tor, 10.; Boston Herald, d.;
'Bostoner   lntelligenz   Blatt,  1.11.;   Boston   Journal,  d., ,.-1.11. and  te. ;
Boston Marine Reporter, t.-m. ; Boston Post, d.; Boston Press and Post,  ,.-w. ; Boston  Recorder,  10. ; Boston   Review,  b.-m. ; Boston
Statesman and W. Post, 10. ; Boston Journal of Hom<00pathy, w. ; Child's Paper, q.; Christian Advocate and Journal, te. ; Christian Banner, m. ; Christian Era, w. ; Christian Examiner, b.-m.; Chris­ tian  Register, w. ; Christian  Watehman, to. ; Christian Witness, w. ;
Christian World, m. ; Church Monthly, m. ; Commercial Bulletin, to.;
Congregationalist, w.;  Congregational  Quarterly, q. ; Courier, d.,,.-w.
and to. ; Der Pionier, w.; Dwight's Journal of Music, b.-m. ; Express
Pathfinder, q.; Flag of our Union, 1.11.; Freedman's Journal, m. ; Freemasons' Monthly .Magazine, m.; Friend of Virtue, m.; Fruits of America, b.-m. ; Gleason's Pictorial, 1.11. ; Good Nws, m. ; Harry Hazel's Yankee Blade, w.; Herald of Health, m.; Home Missionary,
m. ; Home Monthly, m. ; Horticulturist, m. ; Investigator, w.;. Ladies' Almanac, !I·; Ladies' Repository, m. ; Law Reporter,  m.;  Liberator, 1.11.; Literary Companion, to. ; Living Age, w.; Mt1.Cedonian, m.; Magazine of Horticulture, m. ; Masonic Monthly, m. ; Massachusetts. Plowman, w.; Massachusetts :,.Wgister, !I·; Massachusetts Teacher, m.; Medical and Surgical Journal, to, and m.; Methodist Quarterly Review, q. ; Missionary Advocate, m.; Missionary Herald, m. ; Mis­ sionary Magazine, m.; Monthly Novellette, m.; Monthly Ten Cent Novellette, m.; Monthly Religious Magazine, m. ; Mothers' Assistant ; Myrtle, ,.-m.; New Church Magazine, m.; New England Business Directory, !I·; New  England  Di.al,  to.;  New  England  Farmer,  w.;
.N. E. Historical  Register,  q.; N.  E.  Insurance  Gazette,  m.;  New
...
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	525
SuFFOLK   Co.	BOSTON.
Jel'll8alem Magazine, m.; North American Journal of Homooopathy, q.; North American Review, q.; Our Young Folks, m.; Pathfinder Railway  Guide, w. ; Pilot, w.;  Saturday  Evening Express, w. ; Sat­
urday  Evening  Gazette, w.;  Shipping List, ,.-to.; Shoe and  Leather
Reporter  w.;  Student  and  Schoolmate, m.;  Sunday School Advocate,
,.-m. ; Sunday  School  Gazette ; The  Child at  Home, m.;  The  Com­
monwealth, to.; The Freedman ; The Nation, to.; The Sunday Herald,
w.; The Radical, m. ; Tract  Journal, m. ; Transcript,  d. and w. ;
Traveller,  d., ,.-to.  and  to. ; True  Flag,  "'·; Unitarian  Journal,  m. ;
Univel'8alist,  w.;  Voice,  d. ;  Waverly  Magazin  to.;  Well Spring,
w.;  World's  Crisis,  w.;   Wide   World,  "'·;  Young  Pilgrim,  ,.-m. ;
Youths'  Casket,  m.;  Youths'  Companion,  w.;  Youths'  Vislr, m.;
Zion's Herald, w.) ; issued quarterly, monthly, bi-monthly,  weekly,
semi-weekly  and  daily ; gross value, $2,759,768 ; cap., $684,900 ;
Books  printed,   4,500,000 ;  value   of  printing   done  on   the  same,
$445,000 ; value of all other printing done, $990,027 ; cap.,$674,450 ; m. emp., 916; f. emp., 521.
Bookbinderies, 80 ; value of stock used, $228,890; value of bookbinding
done, $497,556 ; cap., $179,900 ; m. emp., 182 ; £ emp., 216.	•
Book-publishing Establishments, 88 ; books published, 4,989,000 ; value, exclusive of printing and binding, $1,847,815 ; cap., $1,818,150 ; m. emp., 888 ; £ emp., 187.
Type and Stereotype Foundries, 7 ; value of stock used, $64,200 ; value of Types, Electrotypes and Stereotype Plates m'd, $199,000 ; cap.,
$102,500 ; m. emp., 85 ; £ emp., 75.
Sewing-Machine lfanufactories, 3; value of stock used, $218,000 ; sewing-machines m'd, 26,496 ; value, $79,428 ; cap., $280,000 ; bands emp., 245.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 69 ; value of stock used,
$115,085; Daguerreotypes and Photographs taken, 8,498,020 ; value,
•	$282,515 ; cap., $118,000 ; m. emp.,· 148; f. emp.,  120•
Looking-Gfasses and Picture Frames, 22 ; value of stock used, $82,749; articles pi'd, 202,016 ; value,  $216,791;  cap.,  $98,800 ;  hands  emp., 168.
Chronometers, Watches, Gold and Silver Ware and Jewelry, establish­ ments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $275,488 ; value of arti­ cles m'd,  $609,688 ; cap., $205,200 ; m. emp., 245 ; f. emp.,  54.
Mattresses of all kinds and materials, manufactories of, 8; ¥alue of stock used, $227,670 ; mattresses of each kind made, (Hair, 2,800 ; Palm Leaf, 4,500 ; Excelsior, 4,020 ; Husk, 8,500 ;) 14,820 ; value, $826,- 601 ; cap.,  $89,750 ; m. emp., 47 ; f. emp., 95.
526	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
BOSTON,	SuFFOLK   Co.

Brush Manufactories,  3; value of stock _ used, $97,000 ; brushes m'd,
392,000 ; value, $210,000 ; cap., $115,000 ; hands emp., 130.
Saddles, Harnesses  and· Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 37 ;  num­
ber of each m'd, (saddles, 125; harnesses, 2,391; tnmks, 15,124 ;) 17,540 ; value,  $431,465 ; vo.lue  of stock  used,  $242,595 ; cap;,
$152,600 ; hands emp., 224.
Military Goods and Equipments,  establishments  for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,700 ; value of  articles  m'd, $6,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; m, emp., 2 ;  f. emp., 8.
Upholstery Manufactories, 17 ; value of stock used, $99,645 ; value of upholstery m'd, ·$237,350 ; cap., $128,000 ; m. emp., 88 ; f. emp., 88. Hat and Cap Manufactories, 31; value of stock used, $807,250 ; bats and caps m'd, (hats, 92,600 ; caps, 231,900 ;) 324,500 ; value, $525,-
122 ; cap., $181,450 ; m. emp., 135 ; f. emp., 224.
Fur Goods, including Leather  Gloves  and  Mittens,  establishments  for the m. of, 16 ; value  of ' stock  used, $831,700 ; value  of  articles m'd, ·
$549,835 ; cap., $317,500 ; m. emp., 56 ; £ emp., 136.
Cordage Manufactories,  2 ; value of stock used, $1,575;  value of Hemp
•   Twine m'd, $3,400 ; cap., $150 ; bands emp., 5.
Slip Yards, 12 ; value of materials used, $2,124,000 ; vessels  launched,
25 ;  tonn<PC,   19,843;  value,   exclusive  of  spars,  rigging  and  sails,
$3,265,000 ; cap., $423,000 ; bands.emp., 915.
Boats, establishmenta for the m. of, 4 ; value of materials used, $6,900 ;
boats built, 129 ; value, $18,400 ; cap., $8,700 ; hands emp., 15.
Mast and Spar Yards or Sheds, 8 ; value of materials used, $143,000 ; masts and spars m'd, 4,930 ; value, $857,600 ; cap., $77,000 ; hands emp., 111.
Sail Lofts, 36 ; sails made of  American  fabric, 9,799 ; Yalue  of fabric,
$301,150 ;  value  of  sails,  $510,750 ;  sails  made  of  foreign fabric,
1,575 ; value  of  fabric,  $268,320 ;  value  of  sails,  $303,757 ;   cap.,
$122,650 ;  hands  emp., 147. ·	.	•
Salt, establishments  for  the  m. of,  1; bush.  of salt m'd, 3,000; value,
$6,0'00 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.	•
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs and other vehicles, establishments for the m. of, 28 ; number of each m'd, (cars, 10 ; car­ riagei, 337 ; wagons, 83; sleighs, 35 ;) 465; value,  $318,785;  value of stock used, $119,855;  cap., $182,700 ; hands emp.,  275.
Sugar Refineries, 2 ; value of stock used, $3,200,000 ; lbs. of sugar refined, 35,000,000 ; value, $4,100,000 ; cap., $850,000 ; hands emp., 225.
186.5.]	INDTJSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	527
SUFFOLK Co.	BOSTON,
Confectionery,  establishments  for  the  m.  of, 23 ; value  of . stock used,
$288,754 ; lbs. of	nfectionery "lllade, 678,538; value, $494,728; cap., $76,000 ; m. emp., 105 ; f.emp., 90.
Umbrellas and Parasols, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; number of each m'd, (umbrellas, 80,500 ; pls, 26,000 ;) 56,500 ; value, $117,000 ; value of stock used, $67,000 ; cap., $47,000 ; m. emp., 17 ; £ emp., 6.5.
Portmonnaies,  Pocket  Books and  Wallets, establishments  for  the m. of,
1; dozens m'd, 576 ; value, $7,500 ; value of stock used, $5,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 2.
Photograph Albums, manufactories of, 4 ; value of stock used, $26,860 ; albums make, 41,778; value, $60,827 ; cap., $15,500 ; m. einp., 27 ;
£ emp., 27.
Ink, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $6,900 ; value of ink m'd,
$19,400 ; cap., $11,000 ; m. emp:, 6 ; f. emp., 8,
Clothing,  establishments   for  the  m.  of, 23'2 ;  value  of  ·stock used,
$9,604,365; value of clothing  m'd,  $15,186,833;  cap.,  $3,865,350 ;  m. emp., 1,479 ; f. emp., 19,205.
Coffee Mills, 9 ; value of stock used, $485,925 ; lbs. of coffee m'd, t,503,678;  value, $606,850 ; cap., $70,250 ; hands  emp., 62.	• Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of articles from, 29; value of stock used, $262,451 ; value of Mantels, Soapstone,
Monuments, &c., $584,800 ; cap., $254,050 ; hands emp., 4.50.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock  used,  $5,000 ;  lbs. of  sperm  candles .made,  25,000 ; value,
$7,500 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands cmp., 1.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 5; value of stock used, $26,000 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 3,990 ; value, $4,965 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 239,000 ; value, $28,900 ; value of all other soaps m'd, $20,000 ; cap., $1.9,500 ; hands emp., 33.
Sperm, Whale, Lard or  Linseed  Oil, establishments  for  the m. of, 2 ;
gross value of stock consumed, $630,000 ; gallons of Lard Oil m'd, 249,896 ; value,  $600,000 ; gallons of Linseed  m'd, :31,500 ; 'value,
$75,000 ; cap., $145,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Kerosene or refined Petroleum, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; Crude Petroleum used, bbls., 49,125; value, $752,083 ; Coal ued, tons, 8,091; value, $56,897; Barrels or other Casks used, 54,850 ; valu,
•90,375; gallons of Kerosene or refined Petroleum m'd, 1,734,000 ; value,  $1,267,120 ; gallons  of  Lubricating  Oil, 189,000 ; value,
$138,200 ; gallons of Naptha, 248,234 ; value, $89,806; lbs. of Par­ afflne, 181,585; value, $46,889 ; cap., $810,000 ; hands emp., 125.
528	STATISTICS  OF  THE   ,	(18.
BOSTON•	SCFFOLK  Co.

.Master Builders, 32; Buildings erected, 84 ; value, $1,556,950; value of materials used, $956,525 ; haads emp., 444.,
Blacksmith   Shops, 75 ; value of  stock  used, $144,640 ; value  of  work
done, $422,391; cap., $88,750 ;	s emp., 269.
Arms, establishments for the m. of, 3 ; value of stock used, $802,800 ; Government Cannon m'd, 297 ; value, $419,000 ; tons of Shells m'd, 1,500 ;  value,  $180,000 ;  Guns  and  Pistols  m'd,  45,225 ;   value,
$1,355,600 ; cap., $526,750; m. emp., 455.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 6 ; value of stock used, $47,000 ;
chairs ·and  settees  made,  72,200;  value,  $110,500;   cap., $85,000;
· m. emp., 67 ; £ emp.,  85.
Cabinet Manufactories, 49 ; value of stock used, $527,885 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $1,187,890 ; cap., $417,900; hands emp., 818.	•
Tin Ware Manufactories, 51; value of stock used, $273,750 ; value of tin ware m'd, $;>99,950; cap., $170,850 ; hands emp., 257.
Comb Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $816 ; value of combs m'd,
$1,925 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
White Lead and other Paints, establishments for the m. of, 1; val'\e of stock used,  $225,000 ; lbs. of ·white lead m'd, 1,500,000 ;   value,
$150,000 ; lbs. of other  paints  m'd,  1,100,000;  value,  $150,000 ;
cap., $40,000 ; hands emp., 40.
Drugs, Medicines and Dyestuffs, establishments for the m. of, 46 ; value of stock used, $805,265 ; value of drugs, medicines and dye­ stuffs m'd, $533,300 ; cap., $187,300 ; m. emp., 91; f. emp., 80.
Vamisb, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $68,000 ;
gallons of varnish m'd, 27,750 ;.  cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Glue Manufactories and manufactories for the preparation of Gums, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of glue and gums m'd, $1,500; cap.,
$200 ;  hands emp., 1.
Currying Establishments, 21; value of stock used, $671,850 ; Hides curried, 215,950; value of Leather curried, $768,724 ; cap.,$125,200; hands emp., 177.
Belting of all kinds, manufaetories of" 4 ; value of stock used, $177,000 ; feet of belting m'd, 854,000 ; value, $222,000 ;  cap.,  $82,000; bands emp., 16.	·
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 96,816; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 446,747 ; gross value of- stock used, $425,014 ; value of boots and shoes m'd,  $793,498;  cap., $212,372 ; m. emp., 627 ;  £ emp., 151.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock
used, $45,200 ; straw bonnets m'd, 88,250 ; value, $86,464 ;  straw
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	529
StrrFOLJt   Co.	BOSTON,

bats m'd, 90,000; value, $90,000 ; cap., $32,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 24.
Brick   Yards,   1; Fire  Bricks  m'd,  1,042,000 ; value,   $58,116; cap.,
$100,000 ; hands emp., 85.	•
Philosophical, Nautical, Astronomical and Mathematical Instruments, establishments for the m. of, IO ; Telegraph, Philosophical Instruments, &c., m'd, 2,950 ; value, $126,800 ; value of stock used, $84,950 ; cap.,$79,200; hands emp., 70.
Snuff, Tobacco and Cigars m'd, value, $827,070 ; value of stock used,
$207,886; cap., $126,575; m. emp., 148 ; £ emp., 57.
Blacking, establishments for the m. of, 8; value of stock used, $84,125; groes value of blacking m'd, $60,878 f cap., $30,100 ; hands emp., 19. Blocks and Pumps, establishments  for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock   used,
$27,()(){\; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $32,000 ; cap., $29,500 ; hands emp., 81.
Gold and Steel Pens and Gold and Ailver Pencil Cues, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $7,800 ; gold pens m'd, 2,228; value,  $15,000 ; cap., $1,800 ; m. emp., 4.
Gold Leaf, inanufactories of, 5 ; value of stock used, $62,800 ; packs m'd, 4,582; value, $102,800 ; cap., $%8,800 ; m. emp., 50 ; £ emJI.; 11.
Last and Shoe-peg Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; lasts
m'd, 72,000 ; value, $18,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 18.
Wire Safes, Sieves, Dish-covers and other articles made wholly or in part of wire, manufactories of, 4 ; value of stock ued,  $15,100 ; value of bird cages, sieves and wire-cloth m'd, $45,000 ; cap., $7,000 ;
m. emp., 28.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 7 ; value of stock used, $79,800 ; casks m'd, 22,800 ; value, $117,500 ; cap., $22,000 ; hands emp., -i8.
Stone and Earthen Ware, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000; value of stone and earthen ware m'd, $15,000 ; cap.,
$5,000 ; hands emp., 25.
C.Oflins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 8; value of stock used, $38,805; coffins made, 8,845 ; value, $56,700 ; cap., $85,-iOO ; hands emp., 81.
Planing Mills and establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 6 ; value of stock used, $28,750 ; value of sashes, doors and blinds m'd, $50,000 ; value of all other work done, $ 1,000 ; cap., $18,800; hands emp., 89.
Boxes, establishments  for  the m.  of, 15;  value of stock used, $90,576 ;
67
580	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
B08TOM.	SUFFOLK Co.

value of  wooden  boxes made,  $26,100 ; value  of  paper  boxes  made,
$170,000 ; cap., $42,350 ; m. emp., 54 ; f. emp., 205.
Fricton  Matches, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value  of stock used,
$60,000 ;  gross  of  matches  m'd,  250,000 ;  value,  $100,000; cap.,
$30,000 ; m. emp., lO ; £ emp., 60.
India Rubber Goods, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $10,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $20,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 25.
Gas, establishments for the m. of, 8; value of stock used, $626,000 ; value of gas m'd, $1,0{2,695 ; cap., $1,498,625;  bands emp., 866.
Pickles and Preserves, establishments for the m. of, 6 ; value of stock used, $173,000 ; value of  pickles and preserves m'd, $365,000 ; cap.,
$185,000 ; hands emp., 144.
Bakeries,  54 ; value  of stock used,  $487,067; value of	read m'd,
$785,930 ; cap., $82,550 ; hands emp., 194.
Distilleries, 4 ; value of stock used, $205,500 ; bbls. of alcohol distilled, 6,780 ; value, $112,000 ; bbls. of all other liquors distilled, 20,000 ; value, $235,000 ; cap., $160,000 ; hands emp., 86.
Breweries, 6 ; value of stock used, $398,009 ; bbls. of Beer m'd, 116,500 ; value, $734,825 ; cap., $815,000; bands emp., 186.
Whale Fishery, vels emp. in, 8 ; tonnage, 484 ; gallons of Sperm Oil imported, 22,700 ; value, $55,200 ; gallODS of Whale Oil imported, 9,600 ; value, $13,400 ; lbs. of Whalebone imported, 2,000 ; value,
$750 ; cap., $81,000 ; hands emp., 68.
Mackerel and Cod Fisheries, vessels emp. in, 48; tonnage, 2,179 ; bbls. of Mackerel taken, 9,115 ; value, $117,950 ; quintals of Codfish taken, 10,075 ; value, $59,900 ; value of Cod Liver Oil sold, $8,425 ; value of Salt OOD8umed, $12,875 ; cap:, $135,000 ; hands emp., 348.
Shell Fish taken, bush.,  889,465; value, $282,667 ;  cap.,  $56,900 ; hands emp., 112.	·
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, vessels engaged in, 521 ; tonnage, 246,117; value, $14,269,925 ; amount received for freight, $9,286,068; hands emp., 6,542.
Com and other Brooms m'd, dozens, 3,450 ; value, $18,200 ; value of stock consumed, $8,850 ; cap., $2,700 ; hands emp., 14.
Farms,  3 ;  acrea, 440 ; value,  including  Buildings,  $47,000 ; acre11
improved, 145 ; persons emp., 6. Unimproved  Land,  IMh8, 275.
Indian  Corn, acrea, 10 ; bush., 600 ; value, $600.
Barley, acres, 4 ; bush., 105 ; value, $85.
Oats, acres, 1; bush., 15 ; value, $9.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	531
SDF1'01.K  Co.	BOSTON.

Potatoes, acres, 12; bush., i,500; value, $1,600.
Oniom, acres, 6; bush., 2,000; value, $2,000. Carrots, 8 ; bosh., 2,000;  value, $1,500.
Ol.bbage, acres, 1; value, $60.
Winter Squash, acres, 1; value, $60.
Market  Gardening,  acres, 20;  value of  products, $2,500.
English Mowing, acres, 145 ; tons of English  hay, 270 ; value,   $5,400.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 15; tons of ealt bay, 22 ; value, $220.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 50 ; value of apples, $125 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 28 ; value of pears, $28 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 14; value of  fruit,  $10.
Merino  Sheep of  difte' rent  grades, 200 ; all  other  kinds  of  sheep, 25 ;
groee value of all sheep, $1,205 ; lbs. of  Merino Wool, 1,050 ; value,
$478 ; lbe. of all other Wool produced,  100;  value, $50.
Hol"Be8, 6,052 ; value, $1,218,120 ; .Aseesand Mules, 12 ; value, $1,300.;
Oxen over four  yea.rs old, 8 ; Steers  under  four yoare old,  12 ; value
or oxen and steers, $2,150 ; Milch  Cows, 166 ; Heifers, 101; value
of cows and heifers, $12,068 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (2 Bulls, $800; 1 Calf, $10 ;) $310 ; gallons of Milk sold, 26,775; value, $8,901.
Swine, 869 ; value, '8,078 ; Vlllue of Poultry sold, $92 ; value of Eggs aold, $75.
Artificial  Limbs, establishments  for  the m.  of, 1; value  of  stock   used,
$52,000 ; value of goods m'd, $140,000 ; cap., $7,000; m. emp., 20. Bags, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $270,000;
value of goods m'd, $805,000 ; cap., $31,000 ; m. emp., 10 ; f. emp.,36. Paper Bags, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ;
value or goods m'd,  $4,500 ; cap., $2,000;  m. emp.,  1; f. emp., 6.
Bell Hanging Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of
goods m'd, $8,000; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 3.
Bl'888  Finishing  Establishments,  10 ; value  of stock  used,  $12,000 ; •
value of goods m'd, $24,000 ; cap., $13,000; m. emp., 11.
Billiaid Tables, establishments for the m. of, 3 ; value of stock used,
$24,582 ; value of goods m'd, $48,750 ; cap., $22,800 ; m. emp., 28.
Bonnet  Frames, establishments  for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock  used,
$ 5,400 ; value of goods m'd, $42,000; cap., $20,450 ; m. emp., l ;
£ emp., 79.
Boot }'itting  Establishments,  1; value of  stock  used,  $2,300 ; value of
goods m'd, $3,500 ; cap., $500 ;  m. emp., 1; f. emp., 2.
Boot and Shoe Patterm, establishments for the ·m. of, 2 ; value of stock
ueed, $600 ; Talue of goods m'd, $3,800; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., S.
582	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
BOSTON.	SuFFOLK   Co.

Boot and Shoe Heel Irons, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of goods m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1.
Tops, Heelings, Stiffenings, &c., establishments for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $19,850 ; value of goods m'd, $45,570 ; cap., $10,100 ; m. emp., 28;  f.  mp., 41.
Bonnet  Bleacheries, 8 ; value  of stock  used,  $9,150 ; value of goods
m'd, $19,850 ; cap., $1,200 ; m. emp., 9 ; £ emp., 8.
Boot and Shoe Dies, establihments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,700 ; value of goods m'd, $8,000; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp,, 5. Bonnet  Wire,  establishments  for the  m.  of, l ; value  of  stock used,
$6,775 ; value of goods m'd, $10,867 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 5.
Bungs, e.<1tablishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,750 ; value of goods m'd, $8,500 ; cap, $650 ; m. emp.,   2.
Cap Trimmings, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$8,000; value of goods m'd, $5,(,00 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 1.
Corks, establishments  for the m. of, 4 ; value of .stock used, $17,250 ;
value of goods m'd, $32,200 ; cap., $16,000 ; m. emp., 15 ; f. emp., 6. Children's Carriages, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $27,500 ; value of goods m'd, $55,000 ; cap., $9,000 ; m. emp.,
15 ; f. emp., 8.
Coal  Sifters, e.,tablishments  for  the  m.  of, 2 ; value  of  stock used,
$4,500 ; value of goods m'd, $12,000 ; cap., $900 ; m. emp., 5. Curtain Fixtures, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$5,000;  value of goods m'd, $7,000 ; cap., $2,700 ; m. emp., 5. Court, Plaster, establishments  for  the  m. of, I ; value  of stock  used,
$2,250 ; value of goods m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1.
China Decorating Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of goods m'd, $4,000 ; cap., $500; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 8.
Clothes Wringers, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used,
$7,502 ; value of goods m'd, $11,034 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 12. Die Sinkers, 8 ; value of stock used, $900 ; value of goods m'd, $8,700;
cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 6.
Dental and Surgical Instruments, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $8,700; value of goods m'd, $16,150 ; cap., $9,000 ; m. emp., 18 ; f. emp., 2.
Engravers on Wood, 12 ; value of stock used, $8,750 ; value of goods m'd, 834,700 ; cap., $10,500 ; m. emp., 40 ; f. emp., 2.
Fish  Drums,  establishments  for  the  m.  of,  2 ;  value  of stock used,
$10,000 ; value of goods	'd, $16,000; cap., $7,500 ; m. emp., 9.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	538
SuFroLK Co.	BOSTON,

Flags and Awnings, establishments for the m. of, 7 ; value of stock used,
$14,512 ; value  or goods m'd, $20,000 ; cap., $8,625;  m. emp., 2 ; f.
emp., 18.
Fuse, establishments for the m. of, 1; value or stock used, $80,000; value. of goods m'd, $150,000; cap., $20,000;  m. emp., 40; f. emp.,  7.
Flavoring  Extracts, establishments  for the  m. of, 8 ;value or stock  used,
$135,800 ; value  or goods  m'd,  $196,000;  cap., $48,500 • m. emp.,
8 ; (. emp., 11.
Gold Refining Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $5,000; value or goods m'd, $5,700 ; cap., $1,200 ; m. emp., 1.
Gas  Machines,  establishments  for  the  m.  of, 1; value or stock used,
$87,000; value of goods m'd, $62,000 ; cap., 50,000 ; m. cmp., 25.
Over Gaiters, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $800 ;
value or goods m'd, $1,500;  cap., $200; f. emp., 1.
Gun-carriages,  establishments  for  the  m.  of,  1; value of stock used,
$1,100;  value  or goods m'd,  $2,000 ;  cap., $1,500 ;  m. emp., 2.
Hair  Work,  establishments  for the m. or, 8 ; '\'aloe or stock used,
$16,750; value  of  goods  m'd,  $88,550;  cap., $18,800 ; m. emp., 5 ;
f.emp., 84.
Hand Stampe, e1tablishments for m. or, 1; value of  stock used,  $2,500;
value  of  goods m'd,  $10,000;  cap.,  $15,000 ;  m. emp.,  6.
Hooks and Screws, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$225 ; value of goods m'd, $1,800; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 4..
Horse   Clothing, establishments   for  the  m. of, 2;  value of  stock used,
$48,850 ; value of goods m'd, $80,500; cap., $22,000 ; m. emp., 14 ;
£ emp., 12,
House Trimmings, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$28,000 ; value of goods used, $68,000 ; cap., $28,500 ; m.emp., 43.
Iron  Bedsteads, establhments  for  the  m. of, 1; value  of  stock used,
$5,000 ; value  or goods m'd,  $8,000 ; cap.,  $1,000 ;  m. emp., 2.
Japanning   Establishments,   1;  value  of  11tock  used,  $1,000;  value  of
goods m'd, $2,500 ; cap., $500; m. emp., 3.
Lapidarian  Establishments,  1; value  of  stock  used, $1,000; value of
goods m'd, $5,000 ;  cap.,  $1,000;  m. emp., 2.
Street Lanterns, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; value  of stock  used,
$1,000 ; value of goods m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 1.
Lightning Conductors, establishments · for the m. of, 1; valu4' or stock
$2,000; value of goods m'd. $5,000; cap., $1,000; m . emp., 8.
Mineral  Water, establishments  for the m. of. 8 ; value  of  stock used,
$82,000 ; value of goods m'd, $57,000; cap., $18,000; m. emp., 26.
534	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
BoSTON.	SuvFOLlt Co.

Moulds, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $1,700 ; value  of goods m'd,  $5,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; m.  emp., 5.
Wood Mouldings, establishments for the m. of, 5 ; value of stock used,
$110,850; value of goods m'd, $206,000 ; cap., $78,200 ; m. emp., 126.
Millinery Establisents7; value of  stock  used, $444,156; value of
goods m'd, $681,739 ; cap., $156,850 ; m. emp., 18; f. emp., 445. Morocco  Cases, establishments for the  m. of, 2 ; value  of stock used,
$2,050 ; value of goods m'd, $5,975; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Neck  Stocks, establishments  for  the  m.  of,  1; value  of  stock used,
$1,100; value of goods m'd, $1,800 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 1 ; £
emp., 18.
Nets  and  Seines, establishments  for  the m. of, 2;  value of  stock  used,
$100,400; value of goods m'd, $201,000 ; cap., $101,100 ; m. emp., 11; f. emp., 200.
Oars, estsblishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ;
value of goods m'd, $27,000 ; cap., $2,400 ; m. emp., 5.
Pattern Making Establishments, 10 ; value of stock used, $9,783 ; value of goods m'd, $58,271 ; cap., $17,600 ; cap., 43.
Plaster  Models,  establishments  for  the  m.  of, 2 ; value  of  stock used,
$364 ; value of goods m'd, $1,560 ; cap., $264 ; m. emp., 3.
Pop Com Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $350 ; value of goods m'd, $1,200 ; cap., $350 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 2.
Portfolios, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of goods m'd, $2,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 4.
Paper Staining Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; value of goods m'd, $1,000; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Papier  Mache,  establishments  for  the  m.  of, 1; value  of  stock used;
$600 ; value of goods made, $1,550 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 3.
Photograph Apparatus, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,400 ; value of goods m'd, $4,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 8. Passe Partouts, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$6,000 ; value of goods m'd, $5,500; cap., $2,500 ; m. cmp., 5; f. emp., 1.
Roofing Felt and Composition, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $100,000 ; value of goods m'd, $150,000 ; cap., $60,006 ;
m. emp., 15.
Scales, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $11,500 ; value of goods IJl'd, $19,0uO ; cap., $9,000; m. emp., 12.
Steam  Gauges,  establishments  for  the  m. of, 2 ;  value  of  stock   used,
$74,000 ; value of goods m'd, $152,000 ; cap., $102,500 ; m. emp.
45.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	585
SUFFOLK   Co.	BOSTON.

Spring  Beds,  establlabments  for  the  m. of,  1;  value  of  stock  used,
$14,000 ; value of goods m'd, $25,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 8. Steam Packing, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$200 ; value of goods m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $1,500; m. emp., 2.
Soda Water  and  Slrups,   4 ; value  of  stock  used,  $86,750 ; value of
goods m'd, $67,500 ; cap., $14,710 ; m. emp., 21.
Silver Plating Establishments, 7 ; value of stock used, $14,500; value of goods m'd, $85,700 ; cap., $17,000 ; m. emp., 20 ; £ emp., 6.
Shipe' Pumps, Capstans, &e., establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $10,000 ; value of goods m'd, $20,000 ; cap., $14,000 ; m. emp., 18.
Stencil Cutting Establishments, 6 ; value of stock used, $11,025 ; value of goods m'd, $28,800 ; cap., $12,400 ; m. emp., 25.
Sewing Machine Needles, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,500 ; value of goods m'd, $54,500 ; cap., $16,000 ; m. emp., 40 ; £ emp., 24.
Stained and Cut Gl888, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of goods m'd, $6,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 4. Stucco  Work, establishments  for  the  m. of, 7 ; value  of  stock used,
$2,250 ; value of goods m'd, $22,500 ; cap., $9,000 ; m. emp., 18.
Spiral Springs,  establishments  for  the m. o(, 1; value  of  stock used,
$28,000 ; value of goods m'd, $30,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 6.
Sugar, Brown, &om molasses, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $995,000 ; value of goods m'd, $1,154,000 ; cap, $225,- 000 ; m. emp., 89.
Tents and Wagon Covers, establishments for the m, of, 8 ; value of stock used, $165,000 ; value of goods m'd, $149,000; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 20.
Tm and Zinc Spinning Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $125 ;
value of goods m'd, $260 ; cap., $150 ; m. emp., l.
Tags, Labels, &c., establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$80,000 ; value of goods m'd, $45,000;  cap., $8,000;  m.  emp., 5 ; £
emp., 5.
Tru88e8,  &c., establishments  for  the  m. of,  8 ; value  of stock used,
$14,400 ; value of goods m'd, $88,250; cap., $16,300 ; m. emp., 17 ;
£ emp., 20.
Tea Caddies, establi!hments for the m. o(, 2 ; value of stock    used,
$7,500;  value of goods m'd, $18,000 ; cap., $8,000; m. emp., 7 ;  f.
emp., O.
Trunk Rivets, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, Sl,000 ; value of goods m'd, $4,000 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 5.
586	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[18.
CBELSli,	SUFFOLK Co.

Vinegar, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $41,800 ; value of goods m'd, $85,400 ; cap., $26,500 ; m. emp., 19.
Water  Wheels, establishments  for  the  m. of, 1; value  of  stock used,
$18,000 ; value of goods m'd, $22,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Window Shades, &c., establishments for the m. of, 6 ; value of stock used, $28,900 ; value of goods m'd, $41,850; cap., $14,550 ; m. emp., 19  ;  f. emp., 5.
Wood Carving Establishments, 6 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of goods m'd, S26,900 ; cap., $4,050 ; m. emp., 10.
Wood Turning, Sawing, &c., establishmenls for, 10 ; value of stock used,
$48,100 ; value of goods m'd, $117,900 ; cap., $41,100; m. emp., 83.
Wooden Brackets, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$2,250; value of goods m'd, $7,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 7.
Wax  Flowel'B,  estabwhments  for  the  m. of, 1; value  of stock used,
$900; value of goods m'd, $1,400 ; cap., $500 ; f. emp., 2.
Whalebone Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,500 ; value of goods m'd, $11,000; cap., $-l,500; m. emp., 5.
Wo:>d  Saws,  establishments  for  the  m.  of,  2 ;  value  of  stock  used,
$8,850 ; value of goods m'd, $14,500 ; cap , $5,500 ; m. emp., 4.
Yeast  Powders, establishments  for the  m. of, 1; value  of stock used,
$13,000 ; value of goods m'd, $18,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 1; f.
. emp., 4.



CHELSEA.

Balmoral  Skirts, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$128,000 ; Balmoral Skirts m'd, 47,968 ; value, $191,872 ; cap.,
$80,000 ; m. emp., 19 ; f. emp., 31.
Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock used,  $70,500 ; Castings  m'd, tons,  1,700 ; value,  $190,000 ; cap.,
$o5,000 ; hands emp., 110.
Brass Foundries, 1; value of stock used, $9,000 ; :Machinery m'd, value, $10,000 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 8.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,550; newspapers printed, (Chelsea Telegraph, Chelsea Bulletin,) 2 ; issued weekly ;. value, $6,000 ; cap.? $2,liOO ; value of all other Printing done, $4,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; f. emp , 2.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  ON MA.SSACHUSE'ITS.	587
SuFFOLK Co.	CBEL8EA,

Sewing Machine Manufactoriee, 1; value of stock used, $15,000 ; sewing machines m'd, 60 ; value, $8,100 ; cap., $800,000 ; hands emp., 40.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 8 ; value of stock used,
$1,145 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 8,200 ; value, $2,988;
cap., $1,750 ; £ emp., 2,
Ship Yards, 8 ; value of materials used, $45,800 ; vessels launched, 10 ;
tonnage, 18,581 ; value, $55,600 ; hands emp.,  58.
Boats, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of materials used, $700 ;
hoe.ts built, 18; value, $2,800 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 8.
Salt, establishments  for  the  m. of,  1; bush.  salt  m'd, 88,400 ; value,
$24,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; bands emp., 8.	•
Confectionery, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; value  or" stock used,
$260; lbs. confectionary  made, 850 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $500 ;
hands emp., 1.	'
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,600 ; Monuments and Cemetery Work m'd, value,
$10,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Linseed  Oil  m'd,  galls.,  800,000 ;   value,   $875,000 ;  cap.,  $100,000 ;
hands emp., 27,
Petroleum, refined, establishments for the m. of, 1; bbls. crude petro­ leum used, 2,000 ; value, $85,000; tons Coal used, 150 ; galls. refined petroleum m'd, 48,000; value, $88,400 ; galls. of Naptha, 20,000 ; value, $6,000; cap., $100,000 ; hands emp., la.
Master Jiuilders, 18; Buildings erected, 19 ; value, $44,000.
Blacksmith Shops, 3 ; value of stock used, $2,200 ; value of work done,
$6,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Varnish, establishments  for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $11,000 ;
galls. varnish m'd, 41,000 ; cap., $10,500 ; hands emp., 22.
Tanning  and   Currying  Etablisbments,  3 ;  value   of  stock  used,
$192,000; Hides tanned and curri.ed, 63,000 ; Leather tanned and corried, value, $240,000 ; cap. $81,000 ; bands emp., 104.
Snuff, Tobacco, and Cigars m'd, value, $40,500 ; value of stock used,
$16,750;  cap., $13,000;  m. emp., 6 ; £ emp., 21.	.
India Rubber Goods, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $24,000 ;  Elastic  Cords  and  Webs,  gross,  4,272 ;  value,
$38,000 ; cap., $50,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; £ emp., 40.
Gas, establi11hmente  for the  m. of,  1 ; value  of stock  used,  $20,700 ;
value of gas m'd, $80,500 ; cap., $150,000 ; bands emp., 10.
Bakeries,  5 ; value of stock  used, $114,900 ; value of  Bread m'd,
$268,500 ; cap., $81,000 ; bands emp., 44.
68
588	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.

Noam  CHELSEA,	SunoLJt Co.

Farms,  7; acres,  86 ; value, including  Buildings,  $82,700 ; acres
improved, 78 ; persons emp., 7,
Indian Com, acres, 4{; bush., 180 ; value, $150. Potatoes, acres, 5t ; bmh., 170.
English Mowing, acres, 75 ; tons of English hay, 80 ; value, $2,400. Salt Marsh mown, acres, .62 ; tons of Salt Hay, 64 ; value, $640.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 845; Pear-trees cultivated  for their fruit, 222 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit,  47.
Horses,  474;   vll.lue,   $47,400 ; Oxen  over  four  years  old,  2 ;  value,
$200; Milch Cows, 108; value, $5,050. Swine, 180 ; value, $8,600.
Paper	angings, establishments for the m. of, 1; value, $8,500 ; value of stock used, SS,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 6.
Dye  Holl88  and  Laundry,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $83,618; cap.,
$25,000 ; m. emp., 25 ; £ emp., 76.	·


NORTH    CHELSEA.

Cordage Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; Spun Yarn m'd, tons, 20 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Blacksmith Shops, 8; value of stock used, $5,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4.	.
Brick Yards, 3; bricks m'd, 1,550,000 ; value, $14,000 ; cap., $8,500 ; hands emp., 21.	'
Fanns, 86 ; acres, 8,347 ; value, including Buildings, $727,200 ; acres improved, 8,807 ; persons emp., 180.	·
Woodland, acres, 40 ; value, $4,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 271; bush., 1,635 ; value, $1,685. Rye, acres, 64 ; bush., 1,706 ; value, Sl,876.
Potatoes, acres, 721; bush., 12,450 ; value, $9,887.50.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, Si ; bush., 2,510 ; value, $1,255. Onions, acres, 171; bush., 5,240 ; value, $5,240.
Carrots, acres, 81; bush., 1,850 ; value, $925. Cabbage, acres, 85 ; value, $7,450.
Winter Squash, acres, 14 ; value, $2,820.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 12 ; bush., 4,260 ; value,
$2,180.
English Mowing, acres, 672 ; tons Englitih hay, 927 ; value, $18,540.
Salt Marsh mown, acres, 1,006 ; tons Salt Hay, 1,006 ; value, $12,072.
•
1866.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	589
StrnOLJt  Co.	WmTBBOP,

Apple-trees cultivated for their frnit, 2,579 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their frnit, 2,267; value of pears, $1,585; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $1,000.
Meri.no Sheep, 2 ; lbs. Merino Wool, 5 ; value, $6.
Hones, 105; value, $15,750 ; Oxen over four years old, 16; value,
$1,600 ; Milch Cows, 152 ; value, $6,080 ; gallons of Milk sold, 54,700 ; value, $10,940.
Swine, 182; value, $2,980 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $4,64.0.


WLV.  IHROP.

Kerosene or refined Petroleum, establishments .for the m. of, 1; galls. crude petroleum used, 800,000 ; value, $90,000 ; tons Coal used, 450 ; value, $8,000; Barrels or other casks used, 7,500; value, $8,000; galls. Kerosene or refined petroleum m'd, 204,000 ; value, $102,000; galls. Naptha, 80,000 ; value, $8,100; 15,000 galls. Still Bottom, value, $2,800 ; bands emp., 13.
Tanning and Cnn-ying Establishment.a, 1; value of stock used, $17,000 ; Hides  curried,   12,000 ; value  of  Leather   curried,  $25,000;   cap.,
$5,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Fireworks, establishments for the m. of, 2; value of stock used, $1,700 ; Torpedoes m'd, value, $4,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; f. emp., 18.
Lobsten taken, 90,000; value, $2,700; bands emp , 7.
Coastwise or Carrying Trade, Vessels engaged in, 8 ; tonnage, 94 ; value, $4,100 ; amount received for Freight, $6,580; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 18 ; acres, 549 ; value, including Buildings, $182,500; acres improved, 813; persons emp., 29:
Unimproved  Land,  acres, 236.
Indian Corn, atres, 11; bush., 222 ; value, $295. Rye, acres, 8; bush., 188 ; value, $218.
Barley, acres, 1; bush., 85; value, $25. Potatoes, acres, 28; bosh., 2,282; value, $2,818.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2; bush., 140;·value, $94.
Onions, acres, 8!; value, $800.
C.arrot.s, acres, If ; bush., 190 ; value, $100. Cabbage, acres, 91; value, $702.
W-mter Squash, acres,  12; value,  $830.
Beets and other esculent  vegetables, acres, Sf ; bush.,200;  value, $210. English Mowing, acres, 125 ; tons  of  English hay, 142; value, $3,775.
540	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
A8BBURNBAU.	WORCESTER  Co.

Salt Marsh mown, acres, 38 ; tons of salt hay, 115 ; value, $2,263.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,297 ; value, $639 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 772 ; value of pears, $815.
Horses, 26 ; value, $2,170 ; Oxen over four years old, 6; value, S300; Milch Cows, 82 ; value, $1,445 ; gallons of Milk sold, 1,700 ; value,
$800.
Swine, 28 ; value, $535;  value of  Poultry sold, $471.




,v o R C E S T E R	C O U N T Y .


ASHBURNHAM.

Cotton Mills, I ; number of Spindles, 4,8QO ; Cotton consumed, lbs., 156,000 ; gross value of all stock used, $195,000 ; lbs. of Yam m'd, 136,500 ; value, $238,875; cap., $30,000 ; m. emp., IO ; f. emp., 20. Railroad Cars, Coache•, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs and other vehicles, establishments  for the m. of,  1; number m'd, I ; value, $35 ; value
of stock used, $55 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp , 1.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, I ; value of clothing ro'd, $2,255 ; cap., $1,300 ; ro. emp., I ; £ emp., 8.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 2 ; value, $1,000 ; value of materials used, $600 ; hands emp., 4.
Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $720 ; value of work done,
$2,500 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Chairs and Settees, roanufactories of, 5 ; value of stock used, $103,815; chairs and settees made, 205,021 ; value, $248,854 ; cap., $59,500; m. emp., 256 ; f. emp., 200.
Tin Ware Manufactories, I ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of tin ware ro'd, $2,500; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; Hides tanned, 1,000; value of Leather tanned and curried, $9,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Boots, pairs of  all kinds m'd, 322 ; Shoes, pairs  of all kinds  m'd, 163;
gross  value   of  stock   used,  $960;  value  of  boots  and  shoes   m'd,
$2,118 ; cap., $650 ; ro. emp., 5.
•
1865.]	L'lDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETIS.	541
Woac&BTEB Co.	.   AsHBURNBA.JL

:Brick  Yards, 1; bricks  m'd,  75,000 ; value,  $450; cap., $800; hands
emp., 8.
Pail and Tub Manufactories, 1; value of stock U!ed, $12,888.75; number m'd, 21,756; value, $18,101.25; cap., $4,000; hands emp., 9. Wooden Ware of all sorts, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock  used, $700 ; value _of  ware  m'd,  $3,100 ; cap., $1,650; hands
emp., 5.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5 ; cuks
m'd, 18; value, $25; cap., $50 ; hands emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial Cases, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $60 ; coffins made, 20 ; value, $200; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Planing Mills and establishments fbr the m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 1; value of stock used, $75 ; value of sashes, doors, and bllods m'd, $200;  cap., $800;  hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $50 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $200 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1,
Friction  Matches, etftablisbments  for the  m. of, 1; value of  stock  used,
$1,700 ; gross of matches m'd, 18,000 ; value, $12,000; cap., $2,000; m. emp., 4; ; f. emp., 6.
Saw  Mills,  15; feet  of  Lumber  prepared   for  market,  860,040; value,
$12,164 ; Laths, Clapboards and Shingles prepared for market, 262,000;   value,   $764.86 ;  value   of   Chair  stock,  $1,500;  cap.,
$10,700; bands emp., 15.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,820 ; value, $6,260. Charcoal m'd, bush., 200 ; value, $80 ; cap., $70 ; hands emp., 2. Farms,  222 ; acres, 24,890; value, including  Buildings,  $591,000 ;
acres of land improved, 12,000 ; persooa emp., 172. Unimproved  Laud, acres, 6,378.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,500. Woodland,  acres,  4,017;  value, $427,400.
Indian Com, acres, 961; bush., 2,985 ; value, $4,225.95•
. Wheat, acres, 9f ; bush., 144!; value, $219. Rye, acres, 19i ; bush., 295i; value, $378. Barley, acres, 781; bush., 1,574 ; value, $1,574. Oats, acres, 641; bush ., 1,54.7 ; value, $957.
All other Grain crops, acres, 1i; bush., 2 ; value, $85. Potatoes, acres, 126/,- ; bush., 19,089 ; value, $9,584.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop, acres,  ll ; bush., 668 ; value,
$17850.
Carrots, acres, 1i ; bush., 1,045 ; value, $299.50. Cranberries, bush., 8 ; value, $18.
STA'nSTICS  OF  THE	(18.
ATHOL.	WORCE8TEa Co.

English   Mowing,  acres,  2,416 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,498; value,
$34,878.
Wet Meadow or  Swale mown, acres, 69t ; tons of wet meadow or   swale
hay,· 5881;  value, $4,671.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,858; value of apples, $8,780; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  408;  value  of pears,  $81.50 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 50 ; value,  $25 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $849.
Saxony Sheep, 17 ; Merino Sheep, 25; all other kinds of sheep, 291; gross value of all sheep, $1,887 ; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 162 ; value, $132; lbs. of Merino wool, 87 ; value, $64.50 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 1,501; value, $866.75.
HoJ.'888, 222 ; value, $15,462 ; Oxen over four years old, 120 ; Steers under four years old, 82 ;·value of oxen and steers, $12,785 ; Milch Cows, l63; Heifers, 195; value of cows and heifers, $19,817 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (14 Bulls,) $254 ; gallons of Milk sold, 10,876 ; value, $2,190 ; lbs. of Buttel" sold, 18,048; value,
$4,584 ; lbs. of Cheese, 280 ; value, $88. Beef, dressed, lbs., 68,255 ; value, $18,114. Pork, dressed, lbs., 44,881; value, $7,257.60 Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,055 ; value, $176.05. Veal,  dressed,  lbs.,  22,681;  value, $1,600.
Swine, 94 ; value, 1,048 ; value of Poultry sold, $.l\80.50 ; value of Eggs sold, $507 ; lbs, of Honey, 647 ; value, $286.80.
Match  Woods and  Spools, establishments  for the m. of, 2 ; value m'd,
$9,872 ; value of stock used, $2,670 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 8. Basket Shops, l ; value of stock used, $400 ; baskets m'd, 8,787 ; value,
$1,100 ; cap , S600 ; bands emp., 8.
Wine Manufactories, 1 ; value of stock used, $850 ; gallons of Wine m'd, 400; value, $540 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.


ATHOL.

Cotton Mills, 1; number of Spindies, 2,560 ; lbs. Cotton consumed, 156,000 ; gross value of all the stock used, $624,000 ; yards of Cot­ ton Cloth m'd, 600,000 ; value, $200,000; cap.,$30,000 ; m. emp., 15 ;
£ emp., 85.
Woollen Mills, 8 ; sets Woollen Machinery, 7 ; lbs. of Sconred Wool consumed, 71,600 ; value of all the stock used, $85,215; yards of Satinet m'd, 880,158;  value, $165,000 ; cap., $70,000 ; m. emp., 59 ;
£ emp., 29.
1865.]	IDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSEITS.
WoaouTBa Co.	ATHOL.

Hollow Ware and Castings other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; tom of Hollow· Ware and other Caatings m'd, 50 ; value, $3,500 ; cap., $1,200 ; bands emp., 8.
Scythe Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,100 ; dozen of Scythes
m'd,  600;  value, $4,000;  cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 6.
Ploughs and other Agricultural Implements, establishments for the m. or, 1; value of stock used, $500; ploughs m'd, 125 ; value, $1,000 ; Garden Hoes and Bakee m'd, 7,000 J value, $2,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Paper Maouf&ctories, 1; tom of stock consumed, 200 ; value, $4,000 ; toD8 Wrapping  Paper  m'd,  18};  value,  $2,000 ; tons  other  kinds paper  m'd, 42;  value,  $6,200;  cap.,  $2,700 ; m. emp., 8.
Priming and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; value of all other Printing done, $1,000 ; cap., $500 ; m.. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Dapeneian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$800 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 12,000; value, $2,000;
cap., $1,200;  m. emp., 8 ;  £ emp.,  I.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for m. of, 1; harneases m'd, 125; value, $3,750; value of stock used, $1,500; cap., $1,000; bands emp., 4.
Railroad  Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons,  Sleighs,  and  other vehicles,
establishments for m. of, 1; wagons m'd, 12; sleighs m'd, 12 ; value,
$1,450; value of stock used, $800 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for the m. or, 8 ; value of stock used, $6,500 ; value of clothing m'd, $10,200 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 18.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; articles m'd, 8 Monuments and 40 sets of Stone ; value, $900 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.
Soap, establishmen&s for the m. or, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; bla.
aof\ eoap m'd, 400; value, $2,000 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Muter Builders, 6; Buildings erected, 10;  value, $10,000;  value of the
materials used, $6,000; hands emp., 12.
Blacksmith  Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of work done,
$6,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Cabinet llanufactories, 3 ; value of stock used, $9,800 ; Chain and Cabinet Ware m'd, $13,900; cap., $5,100; bands emp., 14.
Tin Ware llanufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,500 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $750 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; buah. Grain ground, 15,400 ; value, $15,400 ; cap.,
$3,000 ; hands emp., 2.
544	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
ATHOL.	WORCESTER   Co.

Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1 ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; Hides ·tanned, 2,000 ; Hides tanned and curried, 2,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $14,000 ; cap., $5,300 ; hands emp.,  6.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 91,000 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 24,000 ; value of stock used, $202,000 ; value of boots and Bhoes m'd, $275,900 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 214 ; f. emp., 88.
Palm Leaf for hats, hoods and bonnets, eRtablishmeots for the m. of, 1; value  of stock  used, $2,500 ; lbs  of Leaf prepared,  86,000 ; value,
$5,400 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of  stock used, 4,183 ; palm  leaf  hats m'd, dozen, 5,740 ;  value,
$12,500 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 220.
Brick  Yards,  1; bricks  m'd,  100,000 ;  value,  $800 ;  cap., $800 ;
hands emp., 1.
Blocks and Pumps, establishments for the m. of, 1;- value of  stock used,
$500 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $500; hands emp., 2.
Pail and Tub Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $3,800 ; pails m'd, 44,000 ; value, $7,882 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Last and Shoe-peg Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock  used,  $3,000 ;  ·• bush. of shoe-pegs m'd, 9,500 ; value, $9,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Nail Kegs, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $720 ; Kegs m'd, 12,000 ; value, $1,200 ; cap.; $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Coffins and Burial	es,  manufactories  of,  2 ; value  of stock used,
$500 ; coffins made, 100 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2. Planing  Mills  and establishments  for the m. of  SRBhes, Dool'8 and
Blinds, 3 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of 888hes, doors, and · blinds m'd, $16,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 21.
Bo;xes, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,600; value of  Wooden  Boxes made, $5,600; cap., $3,500; m. emp., 5.
Friction  Matches, establishments  for the  m. of, 2 ; value of  stock   used,
$8,900 ; gross of matches m'd, 26,000 ; value, $16,000 ; cap., $4,600 ; m. emp., 15 ; f. emp., 14.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved, 400 ; value, $200 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Bakeries,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $14,000 ; value  of  Bread m'd,
$20,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Saw Mills, 17 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 2,180,000 ; value,
$82,7Po ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared fur mar• ket, 242,000 ; value, $956;  cap., $15,700 ; bands emp.,  40.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	545
WoaczsTBB  Co.	ATHOL.

Firewood and Bark prepared for market, eord8, 1,57.o ; value, $5,518; cap., $2,000 ; handa emp., 5.
Farms,  179;  acres,  17,849 ;  value,  including  Buildings, $850,250;
ac:ree of land improved, 8,286 ; pel'llOD8 emp., 224.
Unimproved Lend, acres, 8,471. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,092. Woodland, acres, 8,779 ; value, $99,646.
Indian  Com, acres, 157 ; bush., 4,726;  value, $5,907.
Wheat, acres, 19; bush., 207; value, $414. Rye, acres, 85 ; bush., 565; value, $847. Barley, acres, 46; bush., 920 ; value, $920. Buckwheat, acres, 8; bU8h ., 80 ; value, $80. Oata, acres, 82 ; bush., 1,892 ; value, $1,419.
Potatoes, acres, 110 ; bush., 11,481 ; value, $8,827.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2; bOBb., 500 ; value, $125.
Carrots, acres, 2; bush., 500 ; value, $166.66.
Beets aod  other esculent vegetables, acres, 8; bush., 800 ; value,
$266.66.
Hops, acres, 2 ; lbs., 1,200; value, $240. Tobaeoo, acres, f ;lbs., 840 ; value, $168.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,810;  tons  of  English  bay,  1,688 ; value,
$24,495.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 546; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 465 ; value, $8,887.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,598 ; value of apples, $8,426 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 557 ; value of pears, $278; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 200 ; valoe of fruit, $100.
Sheep, 281 ; value, $1,155; lbs. of all other Wool produced, 924 ; value,
$462.
Horses, 834 ; value, $80,060 ; Oxen over four yean old, 102; Steen under four years old, 129 ; value of oxen aod steers, $11,505 ; Milch Cows, 426 ; Heifers, 150 ; value of rows aod heifers, $22,877 ; Neat Stock not embraced above, (10 Bulls,) value, $800 ; gallons of Milk sold, 18,118 ; value, $8,128.82 ; lbs. of Butaer 801d, 9,410 ; value, $8,105.80; lbs. of Cheese, 11,200; value, $1,680.
dressed. lbs., 287,900; value, $28,790. Pork, dreseed, lbs.. 48,825 ; value, $6,578.75.
.Mutton, dreeaed, lbs., 2,000 ; value, $200. Veal, dreseed, lbs., 8,215;  value,  $821.50.
Swine, 63; value, $1,260; value of Poultry eold, $1,108 ; value of Eggs sold, $813; lbs. of Honey, 875; value, $93.75.
69
546	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
AUBUBN,	Woaos&TEB Co.

Boot Forms, establishments for the m. of; 1; value of stock used, $500 ; dozen of boot forms made, 500; value, $1,500 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 2.
Nail  Keg Hoops m'd, 50,000 ; value,·$450;  cap.,  $50;  bands emp.; 1.



AUBURN.

Cotton Mills, 1; Cotton Spindles, 8,940 ; Cotton conaomed, lbe., 100,- 000; gross value of stock used, $50,000; Light Sheeting m'd, yards, 439,654 ; groes value of cloth m'd, $70,000 ; cap., $28,000 ; m. emp., 38 ; f. emp., 86.
Woollen Mills, 1; seta of Woollen Machinery, 1; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 12,000 ; gross value of stock used, H0,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 80,000 ; value,  $48,000 ; cap., $15,000;  m. emp.,  12;
£ emp., 6.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used. $8,000 ; Hides tanned, 1,200 ; Hides tanned and curried, 1,200 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $14,000 ; cap., $4,500; bands emp., 4.
Saw Mila, 1; feet of  Luinber  prepared  for  market,  800,000 ; value,
$16,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles and Staves prepared fur market, 10,000 ; value, $25.
Firewood  and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 1,810;  value,  $7,400.
Farms, 120; acres, 9,088; value, including  Buildings,  $850,600 ; acres of land improved, 2,108 ; peraons emp., 150.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,790. Unimprovable Land,	' 1,980. Wdodland,  acres,  600 ; value,  $4,500.
Indian Corn, acres, 146 ; buih., 5,210 ; value, $7,815.
Wheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 51; value, $112. R)"61 acres, 22 ; bush., 858 ; value, $782. Barley, acres,  18;  bush.,  221 ; value, $821.
Buckwheat, acres, 9 ; bush., 122; value, $169. Oats, acres, 106 ; bush., 8,044 ; value, $8,044. Potatoes, acres, 88 ; bush., 10,008 ; value, $5,868.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8 ; bush., 1,104 ; value, $380.
Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 620 ; value, $390,
Cabbage, acres, 14 ; value, $2,000.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,808 ; tons  of  English  bay,  1,060 ; value,
$28,285.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSEITS.	547
WoRcEsTBR  Co.	BARRE.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 300 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 310 ; value,  $4,000.
Apple-trees	tivated  for their  fruit, 668 ; value of  apples, $224:. Sheep,  129 ; value,  $796 ;  lbs. of Wool  produced,  650 ; value, $400.
Horses, 108; value, $1,905; Oxen over four years old, 78 ;  Steers under four years old, 64 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,635 ; Milch Cows, 318 ; Heifers, 88; value of cows and heifers, $16,527 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (7 Bulls,) $307 ; gallons of Milk sold,  88,309 ; value,  $6,180 ; lbs.  of  Butter  sold,  6,696 ; value,
$2,572 ; lbs. of Cheese, 190 ; value, $81. Bee( dreseed, lbe., 144,350 ; value, $14,430. Pork, dressed, lbs., 80,901 ; value, $4,686. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 64,305 ; value, $8,829. Vea1, dressed, lbs., 1,680 ; value, $283.
Swine, 93 ; value, $1,698 ; value of Poultry sold, $714 ; Eggs sold, value, $638 ; lbs. of Honey, 160 ; value, $52; lbs. of Beeswax, 2 ; value, $1 ; bush. of Beans, 100 ; value, $800.


BARRE.
CoUon Mil.ls, 1; Spindles, 4,000 ; lbs. of Cotton consumed, 156,000; value of stock used, $98,000 ; yards of cotton cloth m'd, 520,000 ; value,  $180,000 ; cap.,  $60,000 ; m. emp.,  20 ; £ emp.,  55.
Woollen Mills, 2; sets of machinery, 5; lbs. of -SCOured Wool con­ eumed, 105,000 ; gross value of stock used, $164,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 1,000.; value, $1,000 ; yards of Flannel or Blanket­ ing, (02,000 ; value, $240,500 ; lbs. Woollen Yarn m'd and dot made into cloth, 1,500 ; value, $1,725 ; cap., $103,000 ; m. emp., 80 ;
£ emp., 17.
Hollow Ware and C6tings other  than  pig  iron, furnaces  for the m. ( 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; t.ons of hollow  ware and  other caatinga m'd, 45 ; value, $2,700 ; cap., $.t,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Cott.on, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for the m. of, 1; gross value of stock used, $2,800 ; value of machinery m'd, $4,700 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Ploughs and other Agricultural Implements, establishments for the m. of;
1; value of stt>ck used, $2,200 ; ploughs m'd, 20 ; value, $160 ; other agricultural implements m'd, 205 Hay Makers ; value, $0; cap., $6,000 ; bands emp., 4.
STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
BARRE.	WORCESTER Co.

Printing  and  Newspaper   Establishments,   1;  value  of   stock  used,
$1,500 ; newspapers printed, (Bane Gazette,) 1; issued weekly ; value, $6,500; cap., $6,000; value of all other printing done, $1,700; cap., $500; m. emp., 5.
Daguerreian  and  Photographic  Establishments,  1;  value  of  stock used,
$300 ; dagueffllOtypes and photographs taken, 2,000; value, $500 ;
cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1.
Matt.reBSeS, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, -..$1,750 ; mat­ tre88e8 made, 500;  value,  $2,500;  cap.,  $1,000 ;  m.  emp.,  3 ;  f.  emp.,  3.
Saddles, HameSBeS, and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 1; har­ nesses m'd, 125 ; value, $4,375 ; value of stock used, $1,900 ; cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2; value of stock used, $16,500 ; value of clothing m'd, $23,900 ; cap., $3,000; m. emp., 4 ; £ emp., 12, Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m, of, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; Gravestones and Monuments m'd, 75 ; value,
$800;  cap., $500;  hands_ emp., 2.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $475 ; bbls.
soft. soap m'd, 240 ; value, $960; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Buildel'II, 5; Buildings erected,  9 ;  value, $14,700;  hands emp.,  16.
Blacksmith Shops, 6 ; value of stock used, $2,600 ; value of work done,
$5,600; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Powder  Mills, 1; value  of stock used, $117,000; lbs. of Powder m'd,
525,000;  value,  $184,750 ; cap.• $75,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Cabinet Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $220 ; value of Chairs and Cabinet Ware m'd, $440 ; cap., $1,850; ands emp., 2,
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,500 ; value of tin ware m'd, $4,500 ; cap., $4,500 ; hands emp., 6.
Flouring Mills, 5 ; bushels of Grain. ground, 78,500 ; value, $91,875 ;
bbls  Flour m'd, 700;  value,  $7,000;  cap., $81500 ; hands emp., 5.
Bts, pairs  of  all  kinds m'd,  766 ;  Shoes,  pairs of  all  kinds  m'd, 500 ; gross value of stock used, $3,240 ; value  of  boots  and  shoes  m'd, $5,156 ; eap., $.2,600 ; m. emp., 9.
Palm Leaf Hats made, 806,180 ; value, $47,941.
Palm Leaf for hats, hoods, and bonnets, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of  stock used, $31,500 ; lbs. of Leaf prepared, 252,000;  value,
$89,225; cap., $6,500 ; hands emp., 19.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, establishments for the m: of, 5 ; value of stock used, $104,500; Shaker Hoods and  Hate or  Jockies


•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	549
WoacuTEB  Co.	BARRE,

m'J,  828,016;  value,  $158,585;  cap.,  $48,000 ;  m. emp., 87 ; £
emp.,  90.
Blocks aod Pumps, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of' stock   used,
$50 ; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $200 ; cap., $100 ; .bands emp.. 1.
Powder Ca.ab or Kegs, establishments  for the  m. of, 2 ; value of stock
1l8ed,  $1,500 ;  ca1b  m'd,  39,000 ;  value,   $8,600 ;   cap.,  $8,000 ;
bands  emp.,  11,
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manuf'act.ories of, 2 ; value of atock used, $260 ; coflina made, 51; value, $510 ; cap., $850; hands emp., 2.
Planing Milla and eetabliahmenta for the m. of' Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 1; value of stock WMfd, $500 ; value of whes, doors, and blinds m'd, $700; value of all other work done, $800; cap., $2,500; baodB emp., 2.
Boxes, establishments  tor  the  m. of, 2; value of stock used, $2,720 ;
value of Wooden Boxes made, $4,200 ; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 5.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preeerved, 70 ; value, $800 ;- cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 11; feet of Lumber prepared for market, I,I05,000 ; value,
$18,260 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, aod Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 750,000 ; value, $225,000; cap., $18,050; hands emp., 15.
Firewood  and   Bark  prepared   tor  market,  cords, 2,115 ;  value, $8,460.
Farms, 286 ; acres,  H,018 ; value,  including  Buildings,  $985,420 ;
aeree improved,  18,782;  persons  emp.,  421.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,285. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,078. Woodland, acres, 4,140 ; value, $167,062.
Indian Corn, acres, 408 ; bosh., 14,049 ; value,  $28,098.
Wheat, acres, 77; bush., 1,290 ; value, $8,870.
Rye, acres, 40 ; bush., 500 ; value, $1,000. Barley, acres, 95 ; bush., 2,188 ; value, $3,199. Buckwheat, acres, 10 ; bUBb., 164 ; value, $164. Oats, acres, 801 ; bush., 9,460 ; value, $9,460.
Millet, acres, 5; (12 tons, not threshed ;) value, $860.
Berdagrasa seed, acres, 8 ; bush., 24; value, $144.
Potatoes, acres, 202 ; bUBb.,  20,794;  value, $10,897.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 28; bush., 4,592 ; value, $1,148.
Oniom, acres, 2 ; bush.,  185 ; value, $270.
Carrots, acres,  1; bush., 848 ; value, $212.
Wm'  ter  Squash, lbs., 5,000 ; value, $100.
STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
BERLIN.	WoacEsTER  Co.

Market Gardening, acres, 8 ; value of products, $300.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 14 ; bush., 1,153 ; value, $346. Cranberries, bush., 15 ; value, $60.
English  Mowing, acres, 4,7'6 ; tons  of English  hay, 5,880 ; value,
$176,400.
Wet   Meadow  or  Swale  mown,  acres,  807 ;  tons  of  wet  meadow  or
. ewale hay, 876 ; value, $12,105.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 12,6i5 ; value of apples, $10,277 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  1,248 ; value  of pears,  $865; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 810; value of fruit, $260; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $143.
Saxony Sheep, 17 ; Merino Sheep, 37 ; all other kinds of sheep, 849 ;
value,  $2,817; lbs. Wool  produced  from  Saxony  sheep,  68; value,
$12 ; lbs. of Merino wool, 111; value, $67 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 1,367 ; value, $546.
Horses, 457 ; value, $46,908 ; Oxen over four years old, 265 ; Steers under four years old, 180; value of oxen and steers, $34,611 ; Milch Cows, 1,537 ; Heifers, 353; value of cows and heifers, $93,226 ; Neat Stock not embraced above, (56 Bulle,) $2,812; gallons of Milk sold, 8,597 ; value, $2,063 ; pounds  of  Butter  sold, 38,886 ; value,
$15,854 ; pounds of Cheese, (besides cheese factory,) 239,029 ; value,
$43,025.
Bee( dressed, lbs., 282,574 ; value, $28,257. Pork, dressed, lbs., 210,570 ; value, $34.744. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 14,700; value, $1,764. Veal, dressed, lbs., 125,525 ; value, $15,063.
Cheese Factories, 1;·lbs. of Cheese m'd, 84,555; value, $20,125; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 2.
Swine, 582 ; value, $11,432 ; value of Poultry sold, $2,040; value of
Eggs sold, $693 ; lbs. of Honey, 273 ; valne, $68.
Palm Leaf prepared  for  Mattresses,  tons,  25 ; value,  $1,200;  value of stock used for same, $625.
Maple Sirup, gallons, 89 ; value, $134. Wine, Domestic, gallons, 844 ; value, $688.


BERLIN.

Blacksmith Shope, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of work done,
$1,000; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2.
.1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASS.A.CHUSE'ITS•	551
WORCESTER   Co.	BaLm.

Drugs, Medicines and Dyestufl'e, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of drugs, medicines and dyestuffs m'd, $8,000 ; cap., $4,700 ; m. emp., 7 ; £ emp., 3.
Planing Milla, 1; va1ue of Boerde planed, per tboueand, $15 ; value of all other work done, $100 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1. ·
Saw Mille, 8 ; feet of  Lumber prepared  for market, '25,000; value,
$6,375;  Shingles prepared  for market, 75,000; value, $224 ; cap.,
$2,800 ; haode emp., 1.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 550 ; value, $!,475.
Farms, 102; acres, 6,968 ; value, ineluding Buildinge, h·ll,770; acres
of land improved, 4,908 ; penona emp., 117. Unimproved Land, acres, 816.
Uoimprovable  Land, 282.
Woodland, acres, 1,930 ; value, $54,977.
Indian Corn, acres, 190; bush., 5,608; value, $5,608. Rye, acres, 85 ; bueb., 414 ; value, $4H.
Oat.e, acres, 78; huh., 1,885; value, $917.50.	,
Potatoea, acres, 101; bueh., 8,958; value, $4,479.
Turnips cultivated ae a field <T. Op, acres, 6; bush., 600; value, $150. Otnota, acres, 2; bush., 250 ; value, $98.75.	• Market Gardening, acres, 6 ; value, $600.
Hope, acres, 6 ; ]be., 2,000 ; value, $400.
English Mowing, acres, 1,017 ; tone of English hay, 978 ; value, $17,514.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 504; tona of  wet  meadow or awale hay,  429 ; value, $4,290.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,500 ; value .of applet, $2,800 ; value of Nutt or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $1.275.
Sheep, 51; value, $229 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 225; value, $125.
Borw.s, 153; value, $10,805; Oxen over four years old, 98; Steere under foor years old, 49; value of oxen and steers, $10,295 ; Milch Cows, 849 ; Heifers, 77 ; value of cows and heifers, $15,947 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (57 Yearlings,) $1,017; gallona of  Hilk  sold,  9,500 ; value,  $2,875; lbe.  of  Butter,  16,150 ; value,
$4,087.50.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 46,575; value, $8,726. Pork, dreal!ed, lbe., 51,100 ; value, $5,110. Mutton, dressed, lbs.,. 250 ; value, $87.50. Veal, dreued, lbs., 22,550 ; value, $2,706.
Swine, 64 ; value, $1,111; value of Poultry told, $575; value of Eggs eold, $725; lbs. of Honey, 180; va1ue, $45.
STATISTICS OF TH'E	(1866,
Bu.OJtSTONL	W0B01t8T&B Co.


BLACKSTONE.
Cotton Mills, 4 ; Cotton Spindles, 4:2,720; Cotton consumed,  bales, 4,000 ; gross value of stock uaed, $250,000 ; yards of Sheetings and Print Cloth m'd, 9,500,000 ; groea value of cloUi m'd, $550,000 ; cap., $500,000 ; m. emp., 850 ; £ emp., 4:25.
Woolleo Mills, 5 ; eeta of Woollen Machinery, 45 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 981,200; groes value of stock used, $1,464:,188; yards of Caasimere m'd, _1,176,500; value, $1,964:,606; yards of Satioet m'd, 128,900 ; value, $83,534:; lbe. of Woollen Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 8,000 ; value,  $10,000 ; cap., $4:56,000; m. emp., 4:38; £
emp., 884:.
Shoddy, eatabliabments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $54,000 ; lbe. of shoddy m'd, 282,000 ; value, $65,4:00 ; cap., $16,000 ; m. emp., 11;.f. emp., 9.
Wagons, establishments for Ute m. of, 1; wagona m'd, 18; value, $900;
value of stock used, $800 ; cap., $4:00 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,628.25;
clothing m'd, $4:,828.25 ; cap., $2,600 ; m. emp., 4: ; £.emp., 2.
Soap, ¥tablisbments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $500 ; bbla. of aot\ eoap m'd,.900 ; value, $4:,000; cap., $4:00 ; hands emp., 2.
Blackamith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $2,800 ; value of work doue,
$5,600 ; cap., $2,800; hands emp., 8.
Tio Ware Maoufactories, 1; value  of  stock used, $4:84: ; value  of tin
ware m'd, $672.65; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Boots and Shoea, establishments for the m. of, 1; groes value of stock used, $600 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $1,500 ; cap., $800; m. emp., 8.
Coffins  and  Burial  Cases  of  all  kinda, establishments  for the m. of,   1;·
value of stock used, $125; coffins m'd, 80 ; value, $320 ; cap., $180;
bands emp., 1.
Saw Milla, 2; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 325,000 ; value,
$1,14:0; value of Hammer Handles and Cloth Boa.rds, $106.66; cap., cap., $500 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market,  cords, 1,84:5;  value, $5,925.
Farms, 188; acres, 9,197f ; value, including Buildings, $4:51,800 ; acrea improved, 8,851 ; persons emp., 165.	•
Unimproved Land, acres, 10. Unimprovable Land, acres, 250. Woodland, acres, 5,4:21; value, $160,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 125!; bush., 4,559 ; value,  $5,327.
18'5.]	INDUSTRY OF M.ASSACHUSE'ITS.	658
WoacaT&a Co.	BLACQTOKL

Wheat, acres, Sf ; bush., 48; value, $138. Rye, acres, 86f ; bush., 510 ; value, $856. Barley, acres, 5 ; bub., 104;  value, $143.50.
Buckwheat, acres, l; bush., 5; value, $10.
Oata, acres, 67 ; bush., 1,660 ; value, $1,580.
Potatoes, acres,  141;  bush.,  12,272 ; value, $10,140.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 6 ; bub., 1,044 ; value, $345.
Canota, acres, l; bush., 45 ; value, $22.50.
Cabbage, acres, 8; value, $291.
W-mter Squash, acres, l; value, SSO.
Market Gardening, acres, 21; value ot product.a, $887.
Beeta and·other esculent vegetables, acres, f ; bU8b., 78 ; value,  $39.
Cranberries, acres, 8; bush., 24 ; value, $83.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,076!;  tons  of  English  llay,  1,0411; value,
$29,869.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 271; tons wet meadow,or awale hay,  161;   value,  $1,594.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,425 ; value of apples, $2,220 ; Pear-trees  cultivated  tor  their fruit, 905; value  ot pea.rs, $102;  all
other trees cultivated tor their fruit, 854 ; value ot fruit,  $11;  value of Nuta or Berriea cultivated or gathered tor market,  $265.
Suony Sheep ot difte' rent grades, 8 ; Iba. or Wool produced,  24 ; value,
$24.
Hones, 210 ; val'ue, $17,524 ; Oxen over four years old, 66 ; Steera under tour years old, 14; value of oxen and steers, $6,805 ; Milch
Cows, 270 ; Heifers, 18; value ot cowa and heifers, $12,186; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (40 young stock, 4 Bulla,) $640 ; galloos of Milk aold, 26,250 ; value, $5,520; Iba. ·or Butter aold, 5,814 ; value, $2,152.20.
Bee( dreased, lbs., 850,868; value, $81,967. Pork. dressed, Iba., 87,847 ; value, $6,879.
:Mutton, dreseed, Iba., 1,500 ; value, $255.
Veal, dreaaed, Iba., 18,800 ; value,  $1,005.
Swine, 55 ; value, $755; value or Poultry aold, $424 ; value ot Eggs aold, $783; lbs. of Honey, 266; value, $98.50 ; Iba. of Beeawax, 101; value, $5.50 ; value ot unenumerated  articlea ot Farm Produce, $387.
Straw Braid m'd in the family, value, $1,241. Hmagarian 01'888, acres, 1; Iba., 4,500 ; value, $65. Grapes, value, $387.
70
STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
BOLTON.	WORCEBTEB  Co.


BOLTON.

Blacksmith Shope, 8 ; handl emp., 8.
Shoes, pain of all kinds m'd, 7,000 ; gross value of stock used, $8,725; value, $6,885 ; cap.,  $4,000 ; m. emp., 6 ; f. ep., 2.
Blocks and Pumps, establiahments for the m. of; 1; value of blocks and pumps m'd, $450; handl emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for the m. o( 1; value of et.ock used, $2,200 ; value of  wooden  boxes made, $8,800 ; cap., $2,500;  m. emp., 2.
Saw Mills, 4 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  479,000 ; value,
$9,162.
Firewood  and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,578; valu·e, $7,856 ;
cap,, $600 ; hands emp., 5.
Farms, 161; acres,,U,572 ; value, including Buildings, $472,581;  acres
improved, 7,718 ; persons emp., 286. Unimproved Land, acres, 146.
Woodland, acres, 4,718 ; value, $18,858.'
Indian Com, acres, 277 ; bush., 9,055 ; value, $12,070. Wheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 86 ; value, $80.
Rye, acres, 80; bush., 8671 ; value, $1,l82. Barley, acres, 85f ; bush., 4.59 ; value, $678. Buckwheat, acres, 2l ; bush., 45 ; value, $45. Oats, acres, 681; bush., 1,584 ; value, $1,527.
Po, acres, 128f ; bush., 18,881 ; value,  $9,570.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a field  crop,  acres,  5 ; bush., 1;886 ; value,
$400.
Onions, acres, l ; bush., 81; value, $145.
Carrots, acres, lOfa- ; bush., 2,668; value, $1,196. Cabbage, acres, ol; value, $1,890.
Winter  Squash, acres,  1i; value, $48.'i,
Market  Gardening, acres, 9 ; value of products,   $825.
Beets  and other esculent  vegetables, acres, l!; bush., 619 ; value,
$281.
Tobacco, acres, l ; lbs., 800; value, $75. Cranberries, acres, 11; bush., 15 ; value, $59.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,753 ; tons of  English hay, 1,684 ; value,
· $42,286; value of Red-top Seed, (100 bueh.,)  $185.
Wet Meadow or Swale mow acres, 707 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay,  656 ; value, $9,289.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 17,527; value of apples, $5,746 ; Pear-trees cultivated  for  their  fruit, 988 ; Yalue of pears,  $189 ;
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	555
WoacssTu  Co.	BOYL81'0lf.

all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,857 ; value of fruit, $426; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $1,857.
Sheep, 108 ; value, $758; lbs. of Wool produced, 425 ; value, $280.
Horses, 289 ; value, $18,078 ; Oxen over four years old, 109 ; Steers under four years old, 62 ; value of oxen and steers, $10,818 ; Milch Cows, 584 ; Heifers, 119 ; value of cows and heifers, $25,182 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (12 Bulls,) $378; galloos of Milk sold,  48,565;  value,   $8,275;  lbs.  of Butter  sold,   18,087 ;  value,
$7,857 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,220 ; value, $241. Beef, dressed, lbs., 159,742 ; value, $20,822. Pork, dressed, lbs., 65,500 ; value, $12,970.
Mutton, dre8eed, lbs., 600 ; value, $68.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 62,420 ; value, $6,688.
Swine, 128; value, $2,728; value of Poultl'y sold, $1,214 ; value of Eggs llOld, $1,027 ; lbs. of Honey, 270 ; value, $81 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, $1,780.
Chilml, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of cburos m'd, $800 ; m.
emp., 2.	·
Taxidermists, 1; value of work done, $$00 ; persons emp., 1. Plumbers' Establishments, 1; cap., $200 ; ban emp., 1•



•
BOYLSTON.

Cotton :Hilla, 1; Cotton Spindles, 5,088 ; lbs. Cotton COD8Umed, 240,000 ; value of stock used, $100,000 ; lbs. of Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 200,000; value, $185,000 ; cap., $88,000 ; m. emp., 20 ; £ emp., 80.
Blaeksmith Shope, 1; Talue of &tock used, $4.00 ; value of work done,
$1,000; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
·Boxes, establishments for the m:of, 1; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of Woodeo Boxes made, $8,800 ; CI\P·, $8,500 ; m. emp., 5.
Saw Mills, 8; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 480,000 ; value,
$8,860 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles and Staves prepared for market,
50,000 ; value, $1,260 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 1,604 ; value, $7,046;
cap., $2,118 ; hands emp., 12.
Farms,  124 ; acres, 12,350 ; value,  including  Buildings, $871,680 ;
acres improved, 6,951; persons emp., 197. Unimproved Land, acres, 2,077.
556	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
BoTLBTOlf,	Woacssna   Co.

Unimprovable Land, acres, 155.
Woodland, acres, 8,197 ; value, $69,149.
lodiao Corn, acres, 221 ; bash., 8,875;  value,  $16,750.
Wheat. acres, 2f ; bu&h., 84 ; value, $68. Rye, acres, 54 ; bub., 455; value, $910. Barley, acres, 5l ; bush., 78; value, $117.
Buckwheat, acres, 9f ; bush., 187 ; value, $187. Oata, acres, 184 ; bush., 5,520; value, $5,520. Potatoes, acres, 101; bu&h., 10,227 ; value, $6,682.· Tumipe, acres, 10; bush., 777 ; value, $810.
Carrots, acres, l ;.bu&h., 50 ; value, $87.
Beets, and other esculent vegetables, acree, 10; bu&h., 500 ; value, $250.
Hope, acres, 6 ; lbe., 2,450 ; value, 875. Cranberries, bush., 25; value, $100.
Eogliah   Mowing,  acres,  1,899 ; tons  of  English   bay,  1,789 ;  value,
$81,802.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 576; toDB of wet  meadow or swale hay,  406 ;  value, $4,928.
A.J>ple-t.reee cultivated for their fruit, 10,850 ; value of apples, $2,624 ; Pear-trees   cultivated   for   their    fruit,   888;    value   of   pears,   $74 ; all  other  trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit,  100; value   of  fruit,   $85; value  of   Nuts  or  Berries  cultivated  or  gathered  for  market,   $100.
Sheep, 69 ; value,  $500;  lbe. of  Wool   produced,  845; value,  $155.25.
Horses,  146; value, $10,468 ; Oxen  over  four years  old, 92 ; Steen
under four years old, 65 ; value of oxen and steers, $9,220 ; Milch Cows, 458; Heifers, 95; value of cows  and  heifers, $19,164 ; value of  Calves  and  Bulls,  $825;  galloDB  of  Milk  sold,  81,546 ; value,
$5,997 ; lbs. of  Butter sold, 82,886; value,  $18,184.40.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 85,754 ; value, $11,148. Pork, dreaeed, lbe., 48,857; value, $7,817. Mutton, dreeeed, lbe., 280 ; value, $87.
Veal, dreaaed, lbe., 20,480 ; value, $2,090.
Swine, lbe., 185 ; value, $2,204 ; value of Poultry eold, $1,180; value of Eggs sold, $956; lbs. of Hooey, 271 ; value, $96.
Cider, establishments for  the m. of; 1; bbl&. m'd, 800 ; value, $6,400 ;
value of stock used, $2,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 8.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS .	557
WoacuTEB  Co.	BaooK.PIELD,


BROOKFIELD.
Hollow Ware  and  Castings other  than  pig  iron,  fumaces  for  the m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $10,000 ; tons  of  hollow  ware  and  other castings  m'd,  156;  value  $15,600;   cap., $5,000 ; handa  emp., 6.
Mechanics' Tools  m'd  and  not  elsewhere  enumerated,  value, $2,700 ;
value of stock used, $450 ; cap., $250 ; handa emp., 4.
Sleighs, establishments for the m. of, 1; number m'd, 75 ; value, $2,000 ;
value of stock used, $825; cap., $1,800 ; handa e•p.,   2.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $17,500 ; wheels m'd, 100,000; value, $35,000 ; cap., $13,000; handa emp., 23.
Tallow  Candles, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value  of stock used,
$30; lbe. of tallow candles made, 400 ; value, $80; handa emp., 1.
Soap, establiahments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $540 ; bbls. of soft eoap m'd, 860 ; value, $1,560; lbe. of hard soap m'd, 400 ; value, $40 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 5 ; value, $37,500 ; value of materials used, $27,000 ; hands emp,; 16.
Blacksmith Shope, 3 ; value of stock used, $390 ; value of work done,
$1,800 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 4.
Flouring  Mills,  2 ; bush.  of   Grain  ground,  80,000 ; value,   $55,500 ;.
cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Currying Establishments, 2; value of stock used, $40,000; IDdes curried, 10,000; value of Leather curried, $55,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; handa emp., 18,
Boots, pairs  of  all kinda  m'd,  185,452 ;  Shoes, pairs of  all kinda  m'd,.
185,000 ; value  of  stock  used  in the manufacture  of  boots  and  ehoee,
$484,621;  value   of  boots   and  shoes   m'd,  $577,897;  cap., $38,800;
m. emp., 814; £ emp.,  57.
Brick Yards, 2 ; bricks m'd, 700,000; value, $3,500 ; cap., $1,500 ;
hands  emp., 12.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $21,500 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $37,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 8. Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 690,000 ; value,
$8,625;  Shingles, 75,000;  value, $225; handa emp., 8.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 617 ; value,  $8,702.
Farms,  160;  acres,  18,032 ; value,  including  Buildings,   $378,988;
acres of laud improved, 8,588 ; persons employed, 98.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,398.
Unimprovable  Laad, acres, 495.
558	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.      ,
CBA.RLTON,	WORCESTER  Co.


Woodland, acres, 2,046 ; value, $48,170.
Indian Corn, acres, 141; bush., 8,828 ; value, $5,785. Wheat, acres, 11; bush., 180; value, $26'0.
Rye, acres, 88; bush., 845; value, $518. Barley, acres, 14 ; bush., 258 ; value, $258. Buckwheat, acres, 5 ; bu.sh., 61 ; value, $61. Oats, acres, 146; bosh., 8,156 ; value, $2,867.
Potatoes, acres, 120; bosb.,·7,985 ; value, $3,992.
Turnips cultivated.as a field crop, acres, 8 ; bush., 225 ; value, $90. Cabbage, value, $167.
Market Gardening, value of products, $550. Tobacco, lbs., 100 ; value, $25.
English  Mowing,  acree,  1,244 ; tons  of  English  hay,  1,492 ; value,
$22,880.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,017 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay,  1,056;  value, $5,280.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,967; value of apples, $4,214 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their &uii, 12i ; value of  pears,  $125.
Sheep, 453 ; value, $2,188 ; lbs. of Woor produced, 1,490 ; value, $1,127. Horses, 157 ; value, $18,355 ; Oxen over four years old, 122; Steers under four years old, 195 ; value of oxen and steers, $15,120 ; Milch Cows, 884 ; Heifers, 193; value of COWS and heifers, $19,485 ; gallons
of Milk sold, 3,685 ; value, $1,112 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 8,070 ; value,
$2,421 ; lbs. of Cheese, 8,480 1 value, $522. Beef, dresse(l, lbs., 187,925 ; value, $18,790. Pork, dressed, lbs., 65,459 ; value, $10,909.
Mutton, dreeeed, lbs., 6,356; value, $889.
Veal, dreseed, lbs., 18,440 ; value, $1,844.
Swine, 127 ; value, $2,080 ; value of Poultry sold, $485 ; value of Eggs sold, $208; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $825.


CHARLTON.

Woollen Mills, 1; sets Woollen Machinery, 1; lbs. Mixed· Stock used, (Waste, &c.,) 72,400 ; value, $5,760 ; yards of Flannel or Blanket­ ing, 78,000 ; value, $31,200 ; cap., $6,500 ; m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 5.
Shoddy, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; lbs. of Shoddy m'd, 22,500 ; value, $2,250 ; cap., $550 ; m. emp., 1. Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $550 ; value of work done,
$2,500 ; cap., $550 ; hands emp., 4.	•
•
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	559
WoacBSTEB  Co.	CHARLTON.
Boote, pairs of all kinds m'd, 7,982 ; Shoes, pairs m'd,  88,910 ; gross value of stock used, $45,600 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $75,000 ; cap., $16,800 ; m. etop.1  68 ; £  emp., 46.
Bo::r.ea, establishments t>r ·the m.	S; value of et.ock ueed, $7,000; value of Wooden Bo::r.ee made, $11,500 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 9. Saw Mills, 14; feet of  Lumbei:.prepa.red  for market, 1,505,000 ; value,
$22,575; Lathe, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­  ket,  190,000;  value,  $422 ; cap., $7,000 ;#hands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 4,598 ; value, $15,000 ;
cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 267 ; acres, 25,878; value, including Buildings, $621,380 ; acres of land improved, 16,717 ; persona emp., 857.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,211. Unimprovable Land, acres, 688. Woodland,  acres, 4,267 ; value, $88,166.
Indian Com, acres, 860 ; boah., 9,552 ; value, $19,104.
Wheat, acres, 1; boah., 12 ; value, $80. Rye, acres, 17 ; bush.,  221 ; value, $442.
Barley, acres, 128 ; bush., 2,900 ; value, $4,850. Buckwheat, acres, 27; bush., 4.53 ; value, $625. ()ate, acres, 214 ; bush., 5,587 ; value, $5,587. Potatoes,  acres,  178;  bush.,  16,989 ; value, $10,198.
English  Mowing, acres, 4,100 ; tons  of English  bay, 8,120 ; value,
$98,600.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,287 ; tons of wet meadow or ewale bay, 879 ; value, $13,185.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,181; value of apples, $2,909 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 190 ; value of pea.rs, $4.5.
Sheep, 485 ; value, $2,619 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,948; value, $1,746. Hore, 847 ; value, $27,168; O::r.en over four years old, 284 ; Steere under four years old, 249; value of o::r.en and steers, $82,760 ; Milch CoWB, 797 ; Heifers, 802 ; value of cows and heifers, $39,595 ; value
of 192 Dry Cows and Bulls, $4,249 ; gallons of Milk sold, 8,054 ;
I
value,  $488 ; lbs.  of   Butter  sold,  25,858; value,  $10,84:1 ; lbs. of
Cheese, 10,096 ; value, $1,514.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 180,60 ; value, $18,062. Pork, dressed, lbs., 49,295 ; value, $8,'.. H6. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 6,295 ; value, $1,049. Veal, dressed, lbs., 27,756 ; value, $2,775.
Swine, 199 ; value, $3,996 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,867 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,317 ; lbs. of Honey, 166 ; value, $55.
•
560	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
CLIKTOX.	WORCESTER  Co.


CLINTON.
Cotton Mills, 2 ; Cotton Spindles, 24,612; lbs. Cotton consumed, 855,708; gross value of all the stock used, $1,087,624.81; yards of Ginghams m'd, 4,853,862 ; value, 1,408,788; Cotton Quilts and Counterpanes m'd, 28,618; value, $118,065; cap.,  $840,000 ; m. emp., 840 ; £ emp., 560.
Woollen Carpeting, mills ft>r the m. of, 1; lbs. of Scoured Wool con­ sumed, 660,000; gross value ofstock used, $841,988; yards Woollen Carpeting m'd,·864,800; value, $1,109,500.60 ; sets of Woollen Machinery, 8; cap., $500,000; m. emp., 161; f. emp., 172.
Balmoral  Skirts, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value .of stock used,
$1,880 ; Balmoral  Skirts  m'd,  480;  value,  $1,820;   cap., $2,200;
m. emp., 8.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $22,000 ;  tons of  hollow ware and other castings m'd, 82H ; value, $41,885 ; cap., $10,000;  hands emp., 11.
Cotton, Woollen  and other Machinery, establishments for the m. of, 1;
gross  value  of   stock   u,eed,   $22,000 ;  value  of   Machinery  m'd,
$45,000; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 40.
Hoop  Skirts, establishments  for  the  m. of,  1;  value  of  stock  used,
$1,800 ; dozen of Hoop Skirts m'd, 168; value, $2,250; cap. $400 ;
£ emp., 4.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $200;
value of printing done, $1,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 2.
Daguerreian and Photographic  Establishments, 1; value of stock used,
$700 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 8,000 ; value, $1,800;
cap., $700; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Harneesee, establishments  for the m. of, 1; number m'd,   60 ; value,
$2,400 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of lfOrk done in  repairs, $,500; value  of stock used, $600 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 6 ; value of stock used, $6,772 ; value of Clothing m'd, $8,992 ; cap., $8,200 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 10. Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $7,476; bbls. soft sonp m'd, 720 ; value, $3,600 ; lbs. of hard soap, 18,000; value, $2,160; value of all other  soaps  m'd, $5,760 ; cap.,  $500 ;
hands emp., 5.
Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 8; value, $89,000 ; value of materials used, $29,500 ; hands emp , 88.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	561
WoRCKSTER   Co.	CLINTON.
Blacksmith Shops, 1; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of work done,
$6,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin  Wa.re Manufactories, 1; value  of stock  used, $400 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $600 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1.
Comb Manufactories, 8 ; value of sused, $26,800 ; dozen of combs m'd, 109,130 ; value, $54,061 ; cap., $10,200 ; m. emp., 45 ; f. emp., 21.
Belting, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $2,800; feet of Belt­ ing  m'd, 4,000;  sets  of  Power  Loom  Harnesses  m'd, 1,000; value,
$5,000 ; cap., $1,800 ; hands emp., 6.
Boots, pairs  of all  kinds  m'd, 200;   Shoes, pairs of all kinds  m'd, 72,150 ;
gross value  of stock  used, $67,810 ;  value  of  boots  and  shoes m'd,
$121,500 ; cap., $15,350 ; m. emp., 58; f. emp., 25.
Coffins, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; coffins made,
87 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $100 ; bands emp., 1.
PJaning  Mills and establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds,	•
1; value   of  stock  used,   $4,000 ; value  of  88.llhes,  doors  and blinds
m'd,  S450;  value  of all other  work  done,  $2,000 ; cap.,  $2,000 ;
hands emp., 7•.
Paper   Boxes,  establishments   for  the  m.  of,  1; value  of  stock   used,
$1,100 ;  value  of   paper   boxes   made,  $2,156 ;  cap.,  $100; m.
emp., 1; £ emp., 2.
Gas, establishments  flt the m. of, 1; value of stock used,  $6,248.70;
value of gas m'd, $9,778.20 ; cap., $30,000; hands emp., 7.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preservd, 325 ; value, $400 ; cap., $600; hands emp., 2.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords,  159;   vtJue,  $800 ;
hands emp., 6.
Fanns, 61 ; acres, 2,093 ; value, including Buildings, $92,105; acres improved, 1,297 ; persons emp., 70.
Unimproved Land, acres, 511.
Woodland, acres, 285 ; value, $14,535.	,
Indian Corn, acres, 68; bush., 2,106 ; value,  $4,212.
Rye, acres, 16; bush., 172 ; value, $344. Buckwheat, l l; bush., 25; value, $37. Oats, acres, 15; bush., 354 ; value, $854.
Millet, acres, l ; bush., 16; value, $64.
Potatoes, acres, 58 ; bush., 4,520 ; value, $3,390.     •
Turnips cultivated  as a field crop, acres, 21;  bush., 402;  value, $118.50.
Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $45.
English  Mowing, acres, 244 ; tons English  hay, 286;  value, $5,900.
71
•
562	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
DAN.&.	WORCESTER  Co.

Wet Meadow  or  Swale  mown,  acres,  88 ;  toQS  of  wet  meadow  or swale  hay,  72 ;  value, $720.
Apple-trees cultivate«r for their fruit, 2,265 ; value of apples, $839 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 176 ; value of pears, $50 ; number of all other tretlB cultivated for their fruit, 60 ; value of Strawberries cultivated or gathered for market, $200.
HorBes, 120 ; value, $11,960;  Asses  and  Mules,  1;  value  of  Asses ud Mules, $5 ; Oxen over four ye&l'B old, 8 ; value, $605 ; Milch Cows, 116 ; Heifers, 23 ; value of cows and heiferB, $6,205 ; gallons of Milk sold, 1,165 ; value, $298.50 ; lbs. of Butter sold,  2,148 ; value, $864:.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 3,988 ; value, $442. Pork, dressed, lbs., 5,546 ; value, $970.48. Veal, dressed, lbs., 5,492 ; value, $796.68.
Swine, 88; value, $1,461 ; value of Poultry sold, $182 ; value of Eggs
sold, $154.15; lbs. of  Honey, 15 ; value, $10.
Wire Cloth, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; feet m'd, 470,000 ; value of stock used, $20,000 ; value m'd, $35,000 ; cap,, $100,000; m. emp., 10 ; f. emp., 10.
Stoves,  establishments  for the  m. or,  1; value  of stock  used,  $400 ;
value m'd, $600 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp.,  1.
Silk and Velvet Bonnets, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $887 ; value m'd, 0 $1,437 ; cap., $411> ; f. emp., 7.
Dental Plate Work, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value m'd, $5,400; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 4.
Woollen Shirt Bosoms, establishments for the m. of, 1; number m'd,
1,756 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value m'd,  $1,050; cap., $400 ;
m. emp., 1.
Hoop Skirt Material, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $125,000 ; value m'd, $176,000 ; cap., $12,000 ; m. emp., 10 ;
£ emp., 35.
•

DANA.

Piano-Fortes, establishments for the manufacture of detached parts of, 1; value of detached parts of piano-fortes m'd, $50,000 ; value of stock used, $15,000 ; cap., $54,000 ; hands emp., 85.
Upholstery Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of upholstery m'd, $7,000 ; cap., $3,500 ; m. emp., 5.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSEITS.	563
WoacESTEB   Co.	DANA.
Blacksmith   Shops, 2 ; value of  &tock  used,  $350;  value of  work   done,
$1,800; cap., $800; hands emp., 2.
Palm. Leaf for hats, hoods, and bonnets, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value  of stock  uaed,  $4,725; lbs. of  Leaf prepared,  31,000 ; value,
$6,500 ; cap., $2,800 ; hands emp., 8.
Palm  Leaf  Hate,  Hood&,  and  Bomleta,   establishments  for   the  m.   of, 3; value of atock  used, $25,500 ; do2l8D  of Hata  m'd, 5,000 ; dozen of   Hoods   m'd,  9,000 ; value,  $37,000 ;  cap.,  $15,500;  m. emp.,  12 ;
£ emp., 14.	'
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  308,000; value,
$3,595 ;  Shingles  prepared  for  market,  20,000;  value,  $50 ; cap.,
$3,000; hands emp., 8.
Firewood and Bark prepared for mart, cords, 527 ; value, $1,574.50 ; cap., $895.90 ; hands  emp., 17.
Com  and  other Brooms  m'd,  15,000 ; value,  $4,500 ; value  of atock
consumed, $2,500;  cap., $1,500;  hands emp., 2.
Farms, 118 ; acres, 8,034 ; value, including Building&, $1 3,416 ; acres of  land improved,  4,901l ; persons  emp., 116.
Unimproved Land, acres, 3,1321. Uoimprovable Land, acres, 335. Weodland, acres, 2,699 ; value, $43,565.
Indian Com, acres, 1791; bush., 3,577 ; value, $7,154.
Wheat, acres, 151;..bush., 118 ; value, $295.
Rye, acres, 331; bush., 279 ; value, $558.
Barley, acres, 1l ; bush., 20 ; value, $30.
Buckwheat, acres, 331; bush., 379 ; value, $505.88.
Oa&s, acres, 76; bush.,  1,347 ; value, $1,347.
Clover Seed, acres, ll ; bush., 45 ; value, $15.
. Potatoes,	831; bush., 6,509 ; value, $3,254.50.
Tumipe cultivated 88 field crop, acres, 3i ; bush., 850 ; value, $70.
Qi.not&, acres, l; bush., 80 ; value, $40. Cabbage, acres, h; value, $27.
lkrlr.et Gardening, acres, l; value of products, $70.
Tobacoo, acres, 1i ; Iba., .2,000 ; value, $200.
English   Mowing,  acres,  9161; toD8  of  English   hay,  7241;  value,
$24,738.75;  Clpver Seed, bush., 3; value, $12.
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale  mown, acres, 5631; tons  of  wet  meadow  or
awale hay, 487; value, $6,331.	·
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,562 ; value of apples, $1,610.50; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 37 ; value of pean, $4.50 ; all other trees  cultivated  for their  fruit, 62 ; value  of fruit, $52; value
of Nute or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $101.
564	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
DOUGLA.S,	WoneESTER    Co.

Sheep, 175 ; value, $875 ; lbs. of  Wool produced, 548 ; value, $403.
Horses, 150 ; value, $1,837 ; Oxen over four years  old,  60 ; Steers under four years old, 68 ; value of oxen nnd steers, $7,728; Milch Cows, 210; Heifers, 78 ; value of cows and heifers, $11,060 ; Neat Stock uot embraced abo\'e, (23 Bulls,) value, $483 ; gallons of Milk sold,   1,601;   value,   $320.20 ;  lbs.  of  Butter   sold,   2,611 ; value,
$928; lbs. of Cheese, 12,415 ; value, $1,977.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 10,850 ;,value, $1,085. Pork, dressed, lbs., 29,140 ; 'talue, $4,662.40. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 525 ; value, $69.50.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 820 ; value, $104.20.
Swine, 62; value, SI,099 ; value of Poultry sold, $769.50 ; value of Eggs sold, $210 ; lbs. of Honey,, 495; value, $165; lbs. of Beeswax, 4; value, $2.50 ; value of unenumerated  articles of  Farm Produce,
$28.50.


DOUGLAS.

Cotton Mills, 1; Cotton Spindles, 1,124 ; lbs. Cotton consumed, 49,494; value of stock used, $22,171 ; lbs. Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 85,000 ; value, $52,500 ; cap., $.!0,000 ; m. emp., 15 ; f. emp., 9.
Shoddy, establishments  for  the  m.  of, 1; value  of  stock  u;ed, $6,500 ;.
lbs. Shoddy m'd, 62,000 ; value, $8,060 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 4. Axes, Hatchets, and  other. Edge Tools, estaltlishments for the m. of, 1;
value of stock used, $375,000 ; dozens of axes, hatchets; and other edge tools m'd, 42,500 ; value, $580,000; cap., $400,000 ; hands emp., 800.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; bbls. of soft. soap m'd, 150 ; value, $7.!0.
Blacksmith Shops, 3 ; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of work done,
$2.500 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 3.	•
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of i;tock used, $300 ; value of tin ware m'd, $400 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, man.ufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; Coffins made, 60 ; value, $i50 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $3,500 ; value of  wooden boxes made, $6,080;  m. emp., 4.
Saw Mills, 10; feet of Lumber prepared  for market, 1,155,000 ; value,
$17,825;  hands emp., 12.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	565
WoacEsTER  Co.	DCDLET•

Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 3,036 ; value, $9,108.
Charcoal m'd, bush.,  10,000 ; value, $1,000.
Farms, 159 ; acres, 9,000 ; value, including Buildings, $269,295 ; acres improved, 4,081.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,815. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,000. Woodland, acres, 10,399 ; value,  $129,980.
Indian Corn, acres, 138; bush., 8,460 ; value, $5,190.
Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 20 ; value, $40. Rye, acres, 31 ; bush., 245 ; value, $367. Barley, acres, 21 ; bush., 870 ; value, $462. Buckwheat, acres, 4 ; bush., 40 ; value, $40.
Oats, acres, 60 ; bush., 1,288; value, $963.25.
Potatoes, acres, 145 ; bush., 9,724 ; value, $4,862.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for  their fruit, 8,584 ; value of apples, $1,800 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 165; value of  pears,   $28.
Sheep, 71; value, $258; lbs. of Wool produced, 218; value, $127.80. Horses, 189 ; Vlllue, $11,862 ; Oxen over four years old, 127 ; Steers under four years old, 80; value of oxen and steers, $8,481 ; Milch Cows, 818; Heifers, 47 ; value of cows and heifers, $11,727 ; gallone
of  Milk  sold,  8,152 ;  value,  $1,631;  lbs.  of  Butter  sold, 8,735;
value, $1,806.
Bee(, dressed, lbs., 207,150; value, $16,572. Pork, dressed, lbs., 68,150 ; value, $10,904. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,836 ; value, $53.?.92. Veal, dressed, lbs., 19;570 ; value, 0$334.84.
Swine, ms ; value, $1,617 ; value of Poultry sold, $800 ; value or Eggs
sold, $300.
Hatchet Handle Manufactories, 1; Handles m'd, 98,600 ; value, $3,266;
m. emp., 5.
Hoop Skirt Tape Factories, 1; gross m'd, 2,780; value, $13,900 ; m. emP;, 1; £ emp., 5.

•
DUDLEY.

Woollen Mills, 4 ; sets Woollen Machinery, 16 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 459,160 ; value of all the stock used, including 11,011 lbs. of Shoddy,  $318,295.99 ; yards  of Caseimere  m'd,  500,000 ; value,
$400,000 ; lbs. of  Woollen  Yarn  m'd  and  not  made  into cloth,
21,929 ; value, $33,429 ; cap., s1Io,ooo ; m. emp., 156; r. emp., 75.
566	STATISTICS' OF  THE	[1865.
DUDLEY.	WORCESTER  Co.

Linen, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200,000 ; yards of Linen m'd,  2,000,000 ; -value,  $300,000 ; cap.,  $100,000 ; m. emp., 100 ;  f. emp., 75.
Harnesses, establishments for the m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 80 ; value,
$600 ; value of stock used, $300 ; cap., $300 ;  hands  emp., 2. Buildings  erected,  4 ; value, $4,000 ; value of  materials  Ul!ed, $2,500 ;
hands emp., 4.
Blacksmith  Shops, 1; value of stdck used, $300 ; value of work done,
$1,200 ; cap., $250;  hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $895 ; Hides tanned, 416 ; Hides tanned and curried, 462 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $5,000 ; cap., $3,800 ; hands emp., 8.
Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 87,000; value of stock used, $18,000 ; value of shoes m'd, $55,500 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 80; f. emp., 20. Distilleries, 1; value of stock used, $1,000; bbls. of LiquoJ'8 distilled,
50 ; value, $5,000 ; cap., $3,000; hands emp., 3.
Saw  Mills,  2 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  280,000 ; value,
$3,450 ; Shingles prepared  for market; 85,000 ; value, $70; cap.,
$700 ; hands emp., 8.
·Firewood prepared for market, cords, 450 ; value, $1,800 ; hands emp.,  10.
Farms, 141 ; acres, 18,884 ; value, including Buildings, $580,008; acres improved, 7,242 ; persons emp., 122.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,550. Unimprovable  Land, acres, 424.	. Woodland, acres, 3,169 ; value,  $48,900.
Indian  O>rn, acres, 2281;  bush., 7,280 ; value, $10,786.85.
Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 25 ; value, $50. Rye, acres, 42 ; bush., 469 ; value, $708.50.
Barley, acres, 61; bush., 125 ; value, $156.25. Buckwheat, acres, 32 ; bush., 467 ; value, $560.40. Oats, acres, 199 ; bush., 6,011 ; value, $4,508.25. Potatoes, acres, 117 ; bush., 10,182 ; value, $7,636.50.
Turnips cultivated l\S a field crop, acres, 2{; bush., 475 ; value, $156.75.
Onions, acres, i ; bush., 160 ; value, $240. Carrots, acres, l ; bush., 165 ; value, $99.
English   Mowing,  RCres,  2,145 ;  tons  of  English  hay,   1,825; value,
$36,500.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 865 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 674 ; value, $6,740. •
1865.]	INDUSTRY ON MASSACHUSEITS .	567
Wo:acEsna  Co.	

Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,045 ; value of apples, $700 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 50 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, Cherries, 100; vaiue of Berries gathered for market,
$20.
Sheep, 178; value, $S90; lbs. of Wool produced, 718 ; value, $587.
Horses, 185 ; value, $14,590; Oxe over four years old, 168 ; Steere under four years old, 119 ; value of oxen and steers, $14,895 ; Milch Cows, 449 ; Heifers, 246; value of cows and heifers, $19,.131 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (26 Yearlings, 11 Colts, 19 Bulle,) $1,845; gallons of Milk sold, 9,295 ; value, $1,859 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 23,866; value, $9,546.40 ; lbs. of  Cheese, 8,685 ; value,
$1,086.20.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 82,600 ; value, $8,260. Pork, dressed, lbs., 31,760 ; value, $4,764. Veal, dressed, lbs., 5,960 ; value,  $596.
Swine, 154; value, $2,825 ; value of Poultry sold, $800;  value  of Eggs sold, $766 ; lbs. of Honey, 100 ; value, $40.


FITCHBURG.

Cotton Mills, 4 ; number of Spindles, 9,296 ; Cotton consumed, lbs., 251,600 ; gross value of stock need, $271,000 ; yards of Cotton Cloth m'd,  171,752;  value,  $78,675;  lbs.  of  Yarn  m'd,  28,000 ; value,
$85,000 ;  yards of  Duck  and  heavy  goods  m'd,  14+,000;   value,
$189,000 ; cap., $167,000 ; m. emp., 60; t. emp., 100.
Woollen Mills, 4 ; sets of Woollen Machinery, 12 ;  lbs.  of ·Soonred  Wool  consumed, 600,000 ; value  of stock used,  $540,000 ; yards of
Caseimere m'd, 161,500 ; value, $285,000; yards of Cloaking m'd, 104,286 ; value, $335,000; cap., $210,000 ; m. emp., 97 ; t. emp.,
96.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. of, 2; value of stock used, $102,941; tons of hollow ware and oti4er eaBtinge m'd, 1,573 ; value, $166,403 ; cap., $28,000; hands emp., 80.
Cotton, Woollen and other Machinery, establishments for the m. of, 9 ;
gross   value   of  stock   used,   $187,850 ;   value   of   machinery   m'd,
$108,500 ; cap., $162,500 ; hands emp., 210.
Locomoti\'es, Steam-Engines and Boilers, establishments for the m. of, l ; value of stock used, $22,140 ; steam-engines built, 18 ;  value,
$48,275; cap., $1,7,000 ; hands emp., 22.

'	Digitized by Google
568	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
FIT.URG.	WORCBSTER   Co.

Scythe Manufactories, 1; value of stock ul'ed, $9,000; dozens of scythes
m'd, 2,500 ; value, $25,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; hands emp., 20.
Axes, Hatchets and other Edge Tools, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $171,000 ; dozens of axes, batches and other edge tools m'd, 8,228; value, $H8,850; cap.,  $151,000 ;  hands emp.,  85.
Ploughs and otbes Agricultural Implements, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $45,500 ; Mowing Machines m'd, 850 ; value, $125,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 80.
Bra88 :foundries, 1; value of stock used, $9,000 ; lbs. of Castings m'd,
80,000 ; value, $15,000 ; cap., $6,000; hands emp., 5.
Paper Manufactories, 9 ; tons of stock consumed, 8,976 ; value, $592,- 040 ; tone of paper m'd, 2,781; value, $1,018,081; cap., $336,000 ; m. emp., 108; f.e1Dp., 89.
Detached parts  of  Piano-Fortes,  establishments  for the m. of, 1; value  of  detached  parts  m'd,  $26,000 ; value of  stock  wed, $5,000 ; cap.,
$10,000;  hands emp.,- 25.
Printing  and  Newspaper   Establishments,   8;  value  of   stock  used,
$4,800 ; newspapers printed, (Fitchburg Sentinel and Fitchburg Revellie,) 2; issued weekly ; Pamphlets printed, 18,000 ; value of printing done on the same, $1,967 ; value of all other printing  done,
$6,700 ; cap., $12,800 ; m. emp., 13; £ emp., 5.
Bookbinderies, 1; value of stock used, $400; value of bookbinding done, $1,500 ; cap., $700 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 2.
Daguerreian and  Photographic Establishments, 3; value of stock used,
$5,500 ;  daguerreotypes  and  photographs   taken,  52,845 ; value,
$14,500; cap., $6,400 ; m. emp., 8; f. emp., 8.
Mattresses of all kinds and materials, manufactories of, I ; value of stock used, $2,400 ; mattresses' of each kind made, 360 ; value, $3,600 ; cap., $500; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 3 ; harnesses m'd, 124; value, $8,930 ; vJue of repairing done, $3,250 ; value ofstock used, $1,850 ; cap., $3,800 ; bands emp., 8.
Railroad Care, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs and other vehicles, establishments (or the m. of, 4 ; wagons and sleighs m'd, 35; value of carri&oces, $4,435 ; value of repairing done, $5,535 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; cap., $4,050; hands emp., 7.
Clothing, e!tablishments for the m. of, 7 ; value of stock used, $36,050 ;
value of clothing m'd, $56,400 ; cap,, $19,700 ; m. emp., 15 ; £ emp.,
48.


t
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	569
WORCESTER  Co.	FITCHBURG.
Marble and  other  kinds of  Stolle, establishments  for the m. of    articles
&om,  1;  value  of  stk  used,   $2,500 ;   artides  m'd,  250 ;  value,
$6,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, establishments for the· m. of, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; lbs. of tallow candles made, 8,0uO ; value, $500 ; cap., $400;  hands.emp., 1.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,500 ; bbl&. of soft soap m'd, l,200 ; value, $5,550; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 5,000; value, $460 ; cap., $3,600; hands emp., 7.
Master Builders, 6; Buildings erected, 86 ; value, $118,500 ; value of repairing done, $56,0(,0 ; value of materials used, $90,500 ; hands emp., 67.
Arms, establishments for the m. of, 1; Cannon m'd, (2 11-in. Iron Blakely Rifled, 1 8-in. Steel Blakely Rifled,) 8; Shells m'd, (Saw­ yer's patent 7-in.,) 1,000 ; value, $15,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 18.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $90,000 ; chairs made, 240,000 ; value, $212,000 ; cap., $125,000; m. emp., 165 ; f. emp., 100.
Rattan used in the m. of chairs and other articles of furniture, establish­ ments for the preparation of, 1; value of stock used, $150,000 ; tons of rattan prepared, 248; valne, $212,500 ; cap., $100,800 ; m. emp., 8a ; £ emp., 20.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 8 ; value of stock  used, $8,000 ; value of  tin
ware m'd, $7,193; cap., $11,500 ; hands emp., 34.
Varnish, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; gallons of varnish m'd, 2,500; ca1.,  $8,000 ; hands emp., 1.	.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. of Gra1'! ground, 50,899 ; value, $95,000 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 800 ; value, $10,000 ; cap., $18,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Tanning and Currrying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; Hides tanned and curried, 800 ; value of Leather tanned and curried,
$1,800 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp , 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 310 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 38,500 ;
gross value  of stock  used,  $47,251 ; value  of boots  and shoes   m'd,
$64.158 ; cap., $14,225 ; m. emp., 50 ; f. emp., 20.
Palm Leaf for hats, hoods and bonnets, establishments for the m. or preparation of, 2 ; value of stock used, $20,000 ; tons of leaf prepared, 120; value, $28,000;  cap., $82,000 ; hands emp., 19.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods and Bonnets, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $4.1,000;  goods m'd, dozens, (hala, 22,000; hoods,.
72
t
570	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
FITCHBURG.	WORCESTER Co.

10,000,)  82,000; value,  $59,000;  cap., $80,000;  m. emp., 215 ; f.
emp., 1,820.	·
Brick Yards, 2 ; bricks m'd, 400,000 ; value, $8,000 ; cap., $1,00Q ; hands emp., 6.
Planing Mills and establishments for the_m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of BaSbt-s, doors and blinds m'd, $8,000 ; value of all other work done, $4,450; cap., $10,000 ; hands.emp.;6.
Gas, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $5,140; value of gas m'd, $10,629;  cap., $45,000;  hands  emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice pre­ served for market, 1,400; Talue, $1,400 ; cap.,$1,700; hands emp.,8. Bakeries, 2 ; value of stock, $16,310 ; value of Bread m'd, $24,000 ;
cap., $5,500 ; hands emp., 11.
Stone Quarries, 8; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $30,900 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 57.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for market, 2,116,000; value,
$88,120; Shingles prepared for market, 290,000 ; vn.lue, $870 ; cap.,
$30,800 ; hands emp., 31.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,236 ; value, $37,439 ; cap., $12,050; hands emp., 31.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 1,900; value, $275.
Farms, 220; acres, 15,746J ; value, including Buildings, $908,808; acres improved, 4,398i ; persons emp., 226.
Unimproved Land, acres, 9,4561. Unimprovable Land, acres, 4451. Woodland, acres, 3,105i ; value, $Jj8,933.
Indian Corn, acres, 2331; bush., 8,851 ; value, $15,451.75. Wheat, acres, 261; bush., 396 ; value, $980.50.
Rye, acres, 291; bush., 488 ; value, $758. Barley, acres, 67 ; bush., 1,014; value, $1,521:50. Oats, acres, 83; bush., 2,147 ; value, $2,147'.
Potatoes, acres, 183 ; bush., 20,998 ; value, $11,345.40.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a field  crop,  acres,  Si ; bush., 2,657 ; value,
$880.88.
Onions, acres, 1; bush., 817 ; value, $554.75. Carrots, acres, 2i ; bush., 1,382 ; value, $552.80. Cabbage1 value, $135.
Winter Squash, value, $119.75. Market Gardening, value, $172.
•Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, Ii; value, $401.
•
1865.]	L".IDUSTRY OF !µ.SSACHUSETTS.	571
WjRCB8TER   Co.	GARDNER.

t	Hops, acres, 1t ; lbs., 800 ; value, $85.
English  Mowing, acres, 2,989f ;  tons of  English  bay, 2,484f ;  nine,
$70,803.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 880t ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 268 ; value, $8,284.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 20,006 ; value of apples, $9,181 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,259 ; value o( pears, $772.50 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 818;  value of  fruit, $481.
Merino  Sheep of different  grades, 12 ; all other  kinds of  sheep, 284;
gross value of all sheep, $1,228 ; lbs. of Merino  Wool,  60 ; value,
$60;  lbs. of all other  Wool  produced,  1,088 ;• value, $768.
Ho1'8C8, 588 ; value, $55,888 ; Oxen over four years old, 105; Steers under four years old, 71; value of oxen and steers, $12,919 ; Milch Cows, 595 ; Heifers, 252 ; value of cows and heifers, $85,080 ; gallons of Milk sold, 59,664 ; value, $14,704.28; lbs. of Butter sold, 13,553; value,  $6,056.75;  lbs. Cheese,  400 ;  value, $66.67.
Bee( dres8ed, lbs., 248,276 ; value, $32,485.82.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 76,472; value, $18,225.05. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,484 ; value, $802.90. Veal, dressed, lbs., 18,509\ ; value, $2,279.78.
Swine, 184 ; value, $2,572; value of Poultry sold, $666 ; value  of Eggs sold, $1,058; Honey, lbs., 256 ; value, $100.17 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce;$2,527. ·
Wood Turning and Reed Manufacturing E11tablishments; 2 ; value of articles m'd, $15,0 ; value of stock used, $5,700 ; cap., $7,500 ; m. emp., 7.
Grape Vines,  value, $225.
Palm Leaf Hats, value of stock used in  pre88ing,  $15,000;  persons emp., 9.



GARDNER.
Mechanics' Tools m'd, gross value, $8,000 ; value of stock used; $5,200; cap., $2,800 ; hands emp., 8.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Ch, Wagons, Sleighs and other vehicles, establishments for the m. of, l ; number of wagons m'd, 6 ; nine,
$800 ; value of stock used, $400 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2. Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $1,650; value of work done, _
$8,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 6.
•
572	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
GARDNER.	W OBCESTEB Co.
Chairs and  Settees, ma•nufactories  of, 18;  value of stock  used, $287,90 ;	t
number  of  chairs and settees  made, 527,657 ; value,  $710,693; cap.,
$244,270;  m. emp., 4 61 ; f. and  children  emp.;1,352•
. T.in Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of tin ware m'd, $400 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., l.
·Varnish, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $10,500 ;
galls. varnish m'd, 4,470 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands cmp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 150 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 200; value c,f stock used, $800; value of boots and shoes m'd,  $1,400;  cap., $500 ;  m. emp., 8.
Pail and Tub Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $10,000; tubs  m'd: 10,000 ; pails m'd, 1,000 ; value, $17,000; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Saw  Mills, 3 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for market,  800,000 ; value,
$85,000.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,254 ; value, $14,500.
Farms, 75 ; acres, 5,802 ; value, including Buildings, $149,965 ; acres of land improved, 5,419 ; persons emp., 200.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,855. Unimprovable Land, ac, 1,000. Woodland, acres, 2,165 ; value, $79,850.
Indian Corn, acres, 48; bush., 1,200 ; value, $2,100.
Wheat, acres, f ; bush., 13; ·value,  $32.
Rye, acres, l; bus't., 6 ;. value, $12.
Barley, acres, 40 ; bush., 1,350 ; value, $1,800.	• Oats, acres, 12 ; bush., 278 ; value, $273.
Potatoes, acres, 78 ; bush., 11,988 ; value, $7,192.
Turnips cul1ivated, not as a field crop, bush., 326 ; value,  $180.
Carrots, acres, t ; bush., 116 ; value,  $58.
Beets and other eculent vegetables, bush., 16 ; value, $12.
Tobacco, acres, 6 ; lbs., 6,000 ; value, $600.
English Mowing, acres, 1,588 ; tons English hay, 1,154 ; value, $84,620.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 295 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 2:30 ; value, $3,450.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,500 ; value of the apples, $1,000 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  68;  value  of  the  pears, $150 ; all other trees cultivated  for their fruit, 200 ; value,    $50.
Saxony  Sheep, ll8; value, $613; lbs. of Wool  produced, 650 ; value,
$600.	.
Horses, 167 ; value, $16,058 ; Oxen over four years old, 88; Steers under  four years  old, 68;  value of  oxen and  steers, $-10,040; Milch
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETIS.	578
WORCESTEB  Co,	

Cows, 884 ; Heifers, 58; value of cows and heifers, $17,718; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulls, 6 Colts,) $550; gallons of Milk sold, 6,485 ; value, $1,602 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 8,990 ; value, $1,475; lbs. of Cheese, 550 ; value, $81.
Beef, dnpld, lbs., 122,000; value, $15,200. Pork, dressed, lbe., 82,018; value, $5,000. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 4,500 ; value, $675. • Veal, dressed, lbs., 5,000 ; value, $700.
Swine, 58;  value, $1,125 ; value of  Eggs sold, $150.




GRAFTON.

Cotton Mill., 8 ; number of Spindles, 80,170 ; lbs. Cotton con@umed, 900,088 ; gross value of all the stock used, $788,640; yards of Cot­ ton Cloth m'd, ( Print Cloths, Shirtings, Sheetings,) 4,800,882 ; value, $1,170,128; lbe. of Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 15,700 ; value, Sl0,825; Shoe Lacinge m'd, gross, 70,000 ; value, $89,200; cap , $450.000 ; m. emp., 135; f. emp., 310.
Hoes, establishments  for the m. of, 1 ; value  of  stock  used, $500; doz,
of hoes m'd, 120 ; value, $950 ; cap., $200; ban• emp , 1. Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 3 ; value of stock used, $11,000 ;
value of clothing m'd, $14,400 ; cap., $5,800 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 22.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; bble. son soap m'd, 800 ; value,
$1,500; mp., $5110 ; hands emp., 2.
Currying Establishments, 6 ; value of stock used, $160,000; Hides curried, 18,000; value of Leather curried, $192,000 ; cap., $82,000 ; bands emp., 86.
Boots  of  all  kinds  m'd,  pairs, 62,915;  Shoes  of  all kinds  m'd,   pairs,
92,554 ; value of stock used, $189,210 ; value of boots and shoes m'd,
$807,208; cap., $58,000 ; m. emp., 212 ; f. emp., 72.
Blacking. establishments  for the m. of, 1; value of  stock used,  $520 ;
value of blacking m'd, $1,800; ,eap., $100 ; bands emp., 1.
Boxes, (Boot and Shoe.) establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,250; value of Wooden  Boxes made, $2,550; cap., $1,000 ;
m. emp•• 2.
Ice  for  market, establishments  for the  preservation  of, 1; tone of ice
preserved, 150 ; value,  $900 ; cap., $250 ; hands emp., 1.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared   for market, cords,  2,000 ; value, $12,000.
574	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
IIABDWJCK.	WoacuT&B Co.

Farms, 150 ; acres, 13,948; value,  including  Buildings,  $1,085,598 ;
acres improved, ll ,6.'.i9 ; persons emp., 279. Unimproved Land, acres, 2,289.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 288.
Woodland, acres, 1,938 ; value, $58,140.
Indian Corn, acres, 317 ; bush., 12,822 ; value, $24,644. Wheat, acres, I ; bush., 8 ;•value, $24.
Rye, acres, 70 ; bush., 965 ; value, $1,930. Barley, acres, 13; bush., 245 ; value, $367.50. Oats, acres, 236 ; bueh., 5,6!16 ; value, $5,696.
Potatoes, acres, 115 ; bush., 11,765 ; value, $7,825.75.
Turnips raised among com, bush., 2,800 ; value, $700.
Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $285.
Winter Squash, acres, l ; value, $50.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,300 ; tons  of  English  hay,  2,575 ; value,
$75,750.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 650 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 575 ; value, $8,625.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 14,200 ; value of apples, $5,200 ; Pear-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 4,200 ; value of  pears, $400.
Saxony Sheep, (20 Southdowns ;) value, $500 ; Merino Sheep, (80 Spanish ;) value, $3,000 ; all other kinds of sheep, 258 ; value of all sheep, $5,515 ; )j)s. Merino Wool, 800 ; value, $300 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 1,221 ; value, $859.
Horses, 400 ; value, $26,675 ; Oxen over four years old, 168 ; Steers under four years old, 176 ; value of oxen and teers, $11,307 ; Milch Cows, 724 ; Heifers, 177 ; value of cows and heifers, $28,248 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (1 Bull,) $50 ; gallons of Milk sold,  128,186 ;  value,  $26,085 ; lbe. of Butter  sold,  6,215 ; value,
$2,42.7.
Swine, 149 ; value, $1,490 ; value of Poultry sold, $267 ; value of Eggs eold, $842.


HARDWICK.
Balmoral  Skirts, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; value  of  stock   used,
$350,000 ; Balmoral Skirts m'd, 279,890 ; value, $458,780 ; cap.,
$62,000 ; m. emp., 100 ; £ emp., 200.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of wheels and repairing, $4,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 8.
1865.]	lliDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	575
WoacEsTER Co.	HABDWICL
Blacksmith  Shops, 4;  value of stock used,  $1,000;  value of work done,	•
$8,000; cap., $1,800 ; hands emp., 7.
Palm Leaf Hats made, 8,125; value, $828.
Boxes, establishments fo' r the m. of, I ; value of' stock used, $200 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $800 ; m emp., I.
Distilleries, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,725 ; bbla. of Liquors distilled,
88 ; value, $3,050 ; cap., $8,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw  Milla, 5 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  495,000 ; value,
$7,800;  Shingles  prepared  for  market, 880,000 ; value, $990; cap.,
$6,500 ; hands emp., 14.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords,  1,211; value, $8,038.
Fanns,  214 ;  acres,  28,558;  value   of   same,  including Buildings,
$581,288; acres improved, 5,196 ; persona emp., 858.
Unimproved land, acres, 12,245. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,023. Woodland, acres, 8,831; value, $120,870.
Indian Corn, acres, 840; bush., 10,954 ; value, $18,692.
Wheat, acres. 41 ; bush., 661 ; value, $1,822.
Rye, acres, 26 ; bush., 472 ; value, $708.  Barley, acres, 7 ; bush ., 211; value, $268. Buckwheat, acres, 18; bush., 188 ; value, $120. Oats, acres, 256; bush., 8,142 ; value, $5,700.
Potatoes, acres, 200 ; bush., 20,952 ; value, $10,476.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, Ii ; bush., 870 ; value, $290.
Onions, acres,  i; bush.,  282 ; value, $232.
Carrots, acres, 2i ; bush., 1,496; value, $624.
Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $200.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, l ; bush., 100; value, $50.
Tobacco, acres, 2; lbs., 8,090 ; value, $515.
English Mowing, acres, 8,206; tons English hay, 4,196 ; value, $83,920.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,082 ; tons of Wet Meadow or Swale bay, 1,048 ; value,. $10,480.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,544 ; value of apples, $6,391 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 865 ; value of pears, $218; aJl other trees cultivated for their fruit, 400; value of the  fruit, $200;  value  of  Nuts  gathered  for market, $28.
Sheep, 161; value, $895 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 676 ; value, $338.
Hones, 264 ; value, $25,780; Oxen over four years old, 238 ; Steen  under four years eld, 105; value of oxen and steer3, $29,475; Milch Cows, I,•3 ; Heifers, 263; value of cows and heifers,  $64,312;  value   of  Neat   Stock   not   embraced   above,  (29  Bulla,)  $1,210 ;


•
•
576	STATISTICS  OF  THE

[1865.


HARVARD,	WORCESTER  Co.
galls. of Milk sold, 2,052 ; value, $410 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 14,800 ; value, $5,920 ; lbs. of Cheese, 130,924 ; value, $21,964.
Beef, dl'6'5ed, lbs., 136,975 ; v{l.lue, $15,067.
•	Pork, dressed, lbs., 108,012 ; value, $18,002.
Mutton, dressed, lb11., 6,610 ; value, $925. Veal, dressed, lbs., 196,950 ; value,  $32,825.
Cheese  Factories, 2 ; lbs.  of Cheese  m'd,  129,286 ; value,  $24,874 ;
m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 3.
Swine, 293; value, $5,162 ; vRlue of Poultry sold, $1,507 ; value of Eggs sold, $822 ; lbs. of Honey, 908 ; value, $227 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 40 ; value, $15 ; bbls. Cider,  1,354 ; value, $8,385 ; Beans,  value,
$360 ; Grape Wine,  alue, $1,76().
All other articles m'd in the family for sale and not before enumerated, Weaving  for Shaker Hoods, value,  $4,858.      ·


HARVARD.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of article$ from, 1; value of stock used, $700 ; v;.iue of Gravestones and Mon­ uments m'd, $:.!,000 ; cap., $700 ; hand$ emp., 8.
Blacksmith Shops. 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done,
$1,600 ; cap., $GOO ; hands emp., 4.
Glue Manufactories and manufactories for the preparation of Gums, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of glue m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $1,200; hands emp., 1.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 20,000 ; value, $82,000; bbls. of Flour m'd, 1,500 ; value, $16,000 ; cap., $10,000; hands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 50 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 8,000 ; gross  value  of  stock  used,  $4,200 ; value  of  boots  and  shoes  m'd,
$6,100 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 4.
Brick Yards, I ; bricks m'd, 2,000,000 ; value, $14,000 ; cap., $3,000; hands emp., 25.	·
Boxes, establishment. for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $876.58 ; value of Shoe Boxes made, $1,370.80 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 1 ·
Saw  Mills,  2 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  .for market, 760,000 ;   value,
$15,200 ; Shingles prepared for market, 60,000 ; Staves, 70,000 ; value, $660 ;  cap., $7,600 ; hands  emp., 7.	·
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,930 ; valte, $10,110 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 12.
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	577
WORCESTER   Co,	IIARVA.RD.

Charcoal m'd, bush., 1,600 ; TBlue, $2'0,
Com   and   other   Brooms   m'd. 13,212;  Talue,   $4,800 ; value   ol  atock
consumed, $8,779 ; cap., $650; bands emp.,  4.
Farms, 197 ; acres, 16,188;  value, including Buildings, $722,650;  acres
improved, 10,824 ; pert!ODS employed, 259.
Unimproved Land, acres, 887,
Woodland, acres, 4,582; value, $160,586.
Indian Com, acres, 829 ; bush., 12,001; value, $21,001.75.
Rye, acres, 64 ; bush., 743; value, $1,486.
Barley, 95 ; bush., 1,885 ; value, $2,298.75.
Buckwheat, acres, 1t ; bush., 80; value, $22.50.
Oats, acres, 119 ; bush., 2,601; value, $2,288.88.
Herdagraas Seed and Redtop, acres, l ; bush., 141; value, $88.
Potatoes, acres, 147l; bush., 15,598; Talue, $7,799.
Turnips cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  12!; bush.,  2,814 ; value,
$462.80.
Onions, acres, l ; bush., 40 ; value, $70.
Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 600 ; value, $180.
Cabbage,  acres,  t ; value, $20.
Winter Squash, acres, l; value, $122.
Beets and  other eeculent  vegetables,  acres, 8 ; bush., 1,962 ;  Talue,
$28L
Hops, acres, 9 ; lbs., 5,606 ; value, $2,171.
Cranberries, acres, 2 ; bush.,  78 ; value,  $250.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,199 ;  tone  of  English  hay,  2,198 ;  value,
$65,790.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,118; tone of wet meadow or swale bay, 870 ; value, $18,050.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 28,148 ; value of apples, $11,860 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,888 ; value of pears,  $588; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,672 ; value of fruit, $720 ; Chestnuts and Walnuts cultivated or gathered for market, bush., 864 ; value, $3,404 ; Berries cultivated or gathered for  market, bush., 259\ ; value, $729.
Sheep, 96 ; value, $694 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 838 ; value, $208.
,. Horses, 299 ; value, $22,165 ; Oxen over four years old, 106 ; Steers under four years old, 53 ; value of oxen and steers, $10,345 ; Milch Cows, 840 ; Heifers, 158 ; value of cows and heifers, $48,665 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (21 Bulle,) $525 ; gallona of Milk sold, 172,168; value, $34,477 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 15,582 ; Talue,
$6,282 ; lbe. of Cheeee, 275 ; value, $26.
18
578	STATISTICS OF THE	[186a.
HOLDEN.	WoacRSTER  Co.

Beef, dressed, lbs., 59,600 ; value, $5,689. Pork, dressed, lbs., 78,881 ; value, $11,795. Veal,  dressed,  lbs., 87,276 ;  value, $4,495.
Swine, 241 ; value, $8,781 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,079 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,634. ; lbs. of Honey, 558 ; value, $238.
Horse Powers, Horse Rakes, Sawing Apparatus, &c., establishments for the  m.  of,  1; value  of  articles  m'd,  $5,500 ; value  of  stock   used,
$8,500; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 4. White Beans, bush., 467 ; value, $1,868. Grapes, bush., 188; value, $576.
Apple Sauce, gallons, 916 ; value, $608.
Herbs prepared, lbs., 19,000 ; value, $4,750.
Herbs,  Sage and  Sweet  Marjoram,  lbs. in cans, 800;  value, $840.
Herbs, Sage and Savory, lbs., 900 ; value, $185.
Dock Roots, &c., lbs., 1,500 ; value, $800.
Rose Water, gallons, 150 ; value, $187.
Catsup, gallons, 61) ; value, $86. Tomatoes, cans, 2,800 ; value, $800. Sweet Corn, cans, 1,750 ; value, $650.
Marrow Squash and Pumpkin prepax:ed  for market, cans, 1,800 ;  value,
$850.
Nursery  Sales, $510.


HOLDEN.

Cotton Mills, 8; Cotton Spindles, 9,172 ; lbs. of Cotton consumed, 178,960 ; value of stock used, $86,668 ; yards of Drillings, Sheet­ ings, and  Light  Corset Jeans m'd, 997,770 ; value,  $164,533; cap.,
$80,000 ; m. emp., 62 ; £ emp., 94.
Woollen Mills, 4 ; sets of Woollen Machinery, 6 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 47,783; value of stock used, $112,148 ; yards of Cassi­ mere m'd, 5,000 ; value, $7,500; yards of Satinet m'd, $218,039 ; value, $186,519 ; lbs. of Woollen Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 800 ; value, $4.50 ; dozen of Shirts and Drawers m'd,   740 ; value,
$6,660 ; cap., $65,000; m. emp., 52; f. emp., 80.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $500; value of work done,
$1,000; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Tanning    and    Currying    Establishments,   1;  value    of   stock   used,
$2,000 ; Hides tanned, 1,000 ; Hides tanned and curried, 1,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $9,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 8.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS .	579
WORCBSTEB  Co.	HOLDEN.

Saw  Mills, 5 ; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for market, 550,000 ;  value,
$9,750 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 550,000 ; value, $16,500 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,000 ; value, $15,000. Farms,   145 ;  acres,  18,651;   value   of   same,  including Buildings,
$485,000 ; acres of land improved, 11,083; persons emp., 820. Unimproved  Land, acres, 5,273.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 240. Woodland, acres, 1,855 ; value, $129,850.
Indian Com, acres, 151 ; bush., 5,055 ; value, $7,582.50.
Wheat, acres, 22 ; bush., 811 ; value, $777.50. Rye, acres, 75 ; bush., 690 ; value, $1,035.
Barley, acres, 74 ; bush., 538 ; value, $807. Buckwheat, acres, 11; bush., 110 ; value, $165. Oats, acres, 81; bWlb., 1,926 ; value, $1,926.
Potatoes, acres, 148 ; bush., 13,208; value, $7,924.80. Turnips cultivated as a field crop, bush., 680 ; value, $315. Onions, bush., 225 ; value, $887.50.
Carrots, bush., 940 ; value, $376.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,627 ;  tons  of  English  hay, 1,494 ; value,
$37,850.	•
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 890 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 317 ; value, $8,170.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,000 ; value of apples, $560 ; Pear-trees, 246; value,  $105 ; value  of  Nuts  or  Berries  cultivated or gathered for market, $370.
Sheep, 230 ; value, $920 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 920 ; value, $552.
Horses, 283; value, $19,810 ; Oxen over four years old, 144 ; Steel'B under four years old, 72 ; value of oxen and steers, $12,600 ; Milch Cows, 524 ; Heifers, 191; value of cows and heifers, $87,250 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (8 Bulls,) $400 ; gallons of Milk sold,  22,000 ;  value,  $330 ;  lbs.  of  Butter  sold,  14,645 ;  value,
$5,225.75; lbs. of Cheese, 8,000 ; value, $450. Beef, dressed, lbs., 17,500 ; value, $1,400.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 81,500 ; value, $4,725. Veal, dressed, lbs., 8,000 ; value, $800.
Swine,  185 ; value,  $2,025 ;  value  of  Poultry sold, $542 ; value of
Eggs sold, $458; lbs. of Honey, 205 ; value, $75.
580	STATISTICS  OF THE	[1865.
HUBBARDSTON.	WoacEsTER  Co.


HUBBARDSTON.

Shoe Tools, value, $8,000 ; value of stock used, $1,200; cap., $2,500; bands emp., 4.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000; value of clothing m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 5. Blacksmith Shops, 3 ; value of stock used, $300 ; value of work done,
$950 ; cap., $300 ; bands emp., 4.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 5 ; value of stock used, $15,100; chairs and settees made, 79,178; value, $85,004. l ; cap., $11,700; m. emp., 41 ; f. emp., 50.
Tin Ware ?tlanufactorics, 1; value of stock used, $2,500; value of tin ware m'd, $3,000;  cap., $10,000;  bands emp.,  14.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $6,850 ; Hides tanned, 1,200; Hides tanned and cunied, 1,200; value of Leather tanne.d and curried, $9,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 22,828 ; Shoes, pairs m'd, 800 ; gross value of stock used, $-15,000; value of boots and shoes m'd, $69,717 ; cap., $16,000 ; m. emp., 32 ; f. emp., 8.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 2; value of stock used, $1,250; value of  Wooden Boxes made,  $3,100 ; cap., $1,700; m. emp., 4.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved for market, 60 ; value, $120; cap., $50 ; bands·emp., 1. Saw Mills, 12 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,669,000 ; value,
$24,784 ; Shingles, 148,000 ; value, $550; cap., $16,100 ; hands emp., 19.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,306 ; Yalue, $3,588.
Farms, 193; acres, 24,734 ; value, including Buildings, $528,870 ; acres of  land improved, 12,174 ; persons emp., 221.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,329. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,790. Woodland, acres, 3,600 ; value, $18,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 124f ; bush., 8,918 ; value, $7,886. Wheat, acres, l Of ; bush., 1Ht ; value, $483.50.
Rye, acres,  5f ; bush., 83; value,  $207.50. Barley, acres, 60 ; bush., 1,517 ; value, $1,517. Oats, acres, 04 ; bush., 2,755 ; value, $2,755.	•
Potatoes, acres, 1461; bush., 17,368 ; value, $8,684. Tunaips cultivated as a field crop, bush., 550 ; value, $275. Carrot>", acres, 3 ; bush., 1,049 ; value, $524.50.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSEITS.	581
WoRcEsTER  Co.	LANO ASTER.

English   Mowing,  acres,  2,222 ;  WDB  of   English   bay,  1,811 ; value,
$36,220.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 875 ; toDS of wet meadow or swale bay, 448 ; value, $4,480.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 12,602 ; value of apples, $3,099 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 517 ; value of pears, $80 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 284 ; value of fruit, $30.
Sheep, 807 ; value, $1,768 ; lbe. of Wool produced, 1,303; value, $652. Horses, 246 ; value, $19,935; Oxen over four yea.rs old, 106 ; Steers under four years old, 80; value of oxen and steen, $12,322 ; Milch Cows, 508; Heifers, 39 ; value of cows and heifen, $23,810 ; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above. (Farrow Cows, 39 ; Two Years' old, 90 ; One Year old, 112,) Sa,669 ; gallons of Milk sold, 1,855; value, $408.10 ; lbe. of Butter sold, 18,286 ; value, $7,814:.40 ; lbs. of Cheese, 8,068 ; value, $1,613.60.
Beet; dressed, lbe., 105,016 ; value, $10,501.60.
Pork, dressed, )be., 80,879 ; value, $14,558.22. Mutton, dressed, Iba., 2,552; value, $306.24. Veal, dressed,  lbs., 47,713;  value, $6,202.69.
Swine, 85 ; value, $1,498 ; value of Poultry sold, $451.75 ; value of Eggs sold, $655 ; lbe. of Honey, 477 ; value, $238.50.
Toy Wheelbarrows and leds, shops for m. of, 1; wheelbarrows and sleds made, 4000 ; value, S2,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 2.
Machine Shops, 1; cap., $1,100 ; hands emp., 2.
Card Board Establishments, 3 ; card boards mllde, dozens, 7,100 ; value, S4,450 ; cap., $1,700 ; bands emp., 9.


LANCASTER.

Cotton Mills, 1; Cotton Spindles, 2,500 ; lbs. Cotton consumed, 150,000 ; value of stock used, $125,000 ; yards of Brown Sheeting m'd, 500,000; value, $165,375 ; cap., $35,000 ; m. emp., 17 ; £ emp., 23. Copper Pumps m'd, 1,500 ; value, $7,500 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 3. Pocket Boob and Wallets, establishments for the m. of, 1; dozens of each m'd, 1,100 ; value, $37,000 ; value of stock used, $22,000 ; cap.,
$2,000 ; m. emp.,.'i ; f.emp., 14.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $700 ; bbls. of soft eoep m'd, 700 ; value, $3,500 ; lbe. of hard soap m'd, 4,000 ; value, $400; value of all other soap m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 3.
582	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
LANCASTER,	WORCESTER    Co.

Blacksmith Shops, 2; value of stock  used, $800; value of work  done,
$2,600 ; cap., $1,400;  hands emp., 5.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 20,000 ; value, $15,000 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 2,000 ; value, $20,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Brick Yards, 2; bricks m'd, 600,000 ; value, $4,875; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 10.
Planing Mills and establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 1; value of work done, $600 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved for market, 1,000 ; value of same, $1,000 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw  Mills, 8 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  725,000 ; value,
$10,825 ; cap., $5,000; hands emp., 5.
Firewood  and Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 8,600 ; value,  $10,800.
Farms, 150 ; acres, 10,445 ; value, including Buildings, $875,770 ; acres improved, 7,220 ; persons emp., 170.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,266. lJnimprovable Land, acres, 878. Woodland, acres, 2,169 ; value, $45,550.
Indian Corn, acres, 257 ; bush., 9,802 ; value, $18,958. Wheat, acres, 2!; bush., 50 ; value, SlOO.
Rye, acres, 89; bush., 1,358; value, $2,087. Barley, acres, 231 ; bush., 528 ; value, $660. Buckwheat, acres, 19!; bush., 228 ; value, $223. Oats, acres, 96 ; bush., 2,580 ; value, $1,985.
Potatoes, acres, 118t ; bush., 14,915; value, $11,186. Carrot..  acres, 41; bush., 1,855 ; value, $463.
Hops, acres, 15t ; lbs., 8,000 ; value, $1,385.
English  Mowing, acs, 1,826!;  tons of  English  hay, 2,061 ; value,
$41,220.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 208 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 191; value, $1,789.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,046 ; value of apples, $2,724 ; value·of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, S.'354.
Sheep, 51; value, $480 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 280 ; value, $118.50.
Horses, 171 ; value, $13,835 ; Oxen over four years old, 80 ; Steers under four years old, 8 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,290 ; Milch Cows, 503; Heifers, 115 ; value of cows and heifers, $22,105; value
.of Neat Stock not embraced above, (22,) $715 ;•gallons of Milk sold, 83,662 ; value, $13,709;  lbs. of Butter sold, 18,249 ; value, $4,380.
1866.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	588
WORCESTEB   Co.	LEICESTER.

Beef, dressed, lbs., 18,800; value, $1,627. Pork, dressed, lbs., 10,970 ; value, $1,388. Veal, dressed, lbs., 10,995;  value, $1,142.
Swine, 142 ; value $1,918 ; value of Poultry sold, $726 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,004.


LEICESTER.

Woollen Mills, 5 ; sets of Woollen Machinery, 25 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 677,000; gross value of stock used, $963,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 845,500 ; value, $305,000; yards of Satinet m'd, 575,000; value, $230,000; yanls of Flannel or Blanketing, 831,856; value,  $416,000; cap., $81000 ; m.  emp., 200; f. emp.,
155.
Machine and Hand Cards of all kinds, establishments for the m. of, 12 ; value of stock used, $814,013 ; hand cards m'd, dozen pairs, 37,972 ; value, $162,662; feet  of machine  cards  m'd, 270,692 ;   value,
$501,734 ; cap., $225,000 ; m. emp., 122; f.emp., 17.
Cordage Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; dozens of cordage m'd, 150;  value, $800; cap., $400 ; bands emp., 1.
Master Builders, 7 ; Buildings erected, 18; value, $29,500; value of materials used, $17,000 ; hands emp., 16.
Blacksmith Shops, 5 ; value of stock used, $850 ; value of work done,
$1,680; cap., $1,050; hands emp., 5.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 4 ; value of stock used, $63,500 ; Hides tanned, 500; Hides tanned and curried, 5,250 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $66,900 ; cap., $15,000; hands emp., 10.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation pf, 1; tons of ice preserved for market, 400; value, $150 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1. Saw  Mills,  4 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 800,000 ; value,
$12,800; cap., $12,000; hands emp., 14.
I<'irewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,413; value, $7,852; cap., $2,900 ; hands emp., 22.	·
Farms,  181; acres, 14,171; value, including Buildings, $746,997 ;
acres of  land improved, 2,576 ; persons emp., 221.
Unimproved Land, acres, 9,024. Unimprovable Land, acres, 542. Woodland, acres, 2,071 ; value, $83,605.
Indian Com, acres, 1311; bush., 2,860 ; value, $4,141.
Wheat, acres, 21; bush., 26 ; value, $42.
584:	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
LEICltBTER.	WoacEBTEB Co.

Barley, acres, 48i ; bush., 1,148 ; value, $1,579. Buckwheat, acres, St ; bush., 98; value, $189. Oats, acres, 4:61; bush., 1,055; value, $962.70.
Potatoes, acres, 1851; bush., 9,031 ; value, $6,827.70.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, ll ; bush., 800 ; nlue, $115.
Onio11t1, acres, l ; bush., 15 ; value, $45. Carrots, acrea,.7 l; bush., 862 ; value, $881. Cabbage, acres, t ; value, $185.
Winter  Squash, acres, l ; value, $165.
Market Gardening, acres, i; value of products,  $125.
Beets and other eeculent vegetables, acres, t ; bush., 70 ; value, $40.
English   Mowing,  acres,  1,443;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,571 ; value,
$41,796.
Wet  Meadow  or  Swale mown, acres, SOS ; tons of wet meadow or swale
·bay, 234 ; value, $1,206.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,964: ; value of apples, $1,931; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,271 ; value of pears, $216 ;  all other trees cultivated for their fntit, 121; value of fruit, $18 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for inarket, $6.
Saxony  Sheep of difte' rent grades, 30 ; Merino Sheep of different grades, 8 ; all other kinds of sheep, 85 ; gross value of all sheep, $687 ; lbs. of Wool produced from Saxony Sheep, 150 ; value, $80 ; lbs. of Merino Woo 45 ; value, $86 ; lbs. of all other wool produced, 106 ; value, $77.50.
Horses, 296 ; value, $19,350 ; Oxen over four  years  old,  90 ; Steers  under four years old, 80 ; value of oxen and  eteen,  $10,084 ; Milch Cows, 4:21; Heifers, 56 ; value of cows  and  heifel'!!,  $20,751;  value of Neat Stock not embraced above,  (6  Bulls,  22  Yearlings,  4  Dry Cows,)  $525;  pllons  of   Milk   sold,   10,142 ; value,   $2,288;  lbs. of
Butter sold, 18,660 ; value,  $5,486 ; lbs. of Cheese, 825 ;  value,
$152.50.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 283,780; value, $32,452.53. Pork, dressed, lbs., 65,035; value, $11,605.80. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 7,314 ; Yalue, $1,205.76. Veal, dressed, lbs., 81,135 ; value, $3,754.14.
Swine,  821;  value,  $3,121;  value  of  Poultry   sold,   $292 ;  value of Eggs sold, $448; lbs. of Honey, 145; value, $40.60 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 50; value, $20.
Planing Knives and Engine Bars, establishments for the m.of, 1; value ofarticles m'd, $34,000 ; value of stock used, $17,000 ; cap., $2,000
m. emp , 10.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	585
W0Bc1tsTEB  Co.	LEOMINSTER.


LEOMINSTER.

Button Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of Horn Buttons m'd, $2,967 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 5.
Paper Manufactories, 1 ; tons of stock consumed, 500 ; value, $M,,OOO ; tons Printing Paper  m'd,  800;  value,  $100,000 ;  cap.,  $80,000; m. emp., 22 ; f. emp., 12.
Piano-Forte Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $17,500 ; piano-fortes m'd, 150; value, $34,858 ; cap., $5,000 ; establishments for the m. of detached parts of piano-fortes, 2 ; value of detacl1ed parts of piano­ fortes m'd, $16,852; value of stock used, $5,614 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 67.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$500 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 10,000 ; value, $2,500;
cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 8; £ emp., 1.
Clothing, establishments for m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,500 ; value of clothing m'd, $6,481; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 5. Blacksmith Shops, 8 ; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of work done,
$2,400; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Cabinet Manufactories, 8; value of stock used, $81,000; value of Chairs and Cabinet Ware m'd, $56,500 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 48.
Comb Manufactories, 15; value of stock used, $98,250 ; value of combs m'd, $238,100 ; cap., $24,800 ; m. emp. 218; £ emp., 86.
Flouring  Mills, 2 ; bush. of Grain ground, 80,000; value, $80,000 ;
cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $2!1,000;
value of Leather tanned and curried, $71,000 ; hands emp., 28.
Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 84,820 ; value of stock used, $31,600 ; value of shoes m'd, $45,529 ; cap., $8,500 ; m. emp., 84 ; £ emp., 18. Pail and Tub Manufactories, .1; value of stock used, $2,500; value m'd,
$11,805 ; cap., $3,000;  hands emp., 8.
Boxes, establishments  for  the  m. of, 8 ; value  of Paper  Boxes made,
$8,700 ; cap., $2,000; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 18,
Bakeries, 1; value of Bread m'd, $2,450; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw  Mills, 4 ;  feet of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  1,000,000 ; value,
$21,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 9.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market,  cords,  2,400;  value,  $14,400 ;
cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 20.	•
Farms, 191;  acres, 17,675 ; value,  including  Buildings,  $1,220,702  ;
acres of land improved, 11,456 ; persons emp., 362.
u
586	STATISTICS   OF  THE	[1866.
LEOJIIlfSTF.IL	W0BCE8TER   Co.

Unimproved Land, acres, 6,118. Unimprovable Land, acres, 101. Woodland, acres, 3,740 ; value, $15,760.
Indian  Corn, acres, 218;  bush., 8,720;  value,  $8,720.
Wheat, acres, 76 ; buah., 945; value, $1,890. Rye, acres, 62 ; bush., 980; value, $930.
Barley, acres, 8? ; bush., 261 ; value, $245. Buckwheat, acres, 82 ; bush., 563 ; value, $450. Oats, acres, 140; bush., 4,200; value, $2,100. Millet, acres, 28 ; used for fodder only.
Potatoes, acres, 88 ; bush., 7,684 ; value, $8,842.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 41; bush., 8,460 ; value, $865.
Carrot.a, acres, 7 ; bush., 1,860 ; value, $544.
Cabbage, acres, 2 ; value, $615.
Beets  and other esculent vegetables, acres, 7 ; bush., 1,260 ; value,
$420.
Hope, acres, '2 ;  value, $167.
English  Mowing,  acres, 1,514 ; tons  of  English  hay,  1,862 ; value,
$27,240.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 861 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 276 ; value, $2,208.
Apple-trees  cultivated for their fruit, 6,782 ; value of apples, $4,589  ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 862 ; value of pean, $437.
Saxony Sheep, 103;  all  other kinds  of sheep, 108 ; value of all sheep,
$748 ; lbs. of Saxony Wool produced, 467 ; value, $822.
Hones, 358; value, $89,022 ; Oxen over four years old,  106;  Steen under four years old, 41; value of oxen and steers, $11,764 ; Milch Cows, 811 ; Heifers, 206 ; value of cows and  heifers, $55,743 ;  Neat Stock not embraced above, (11 Bulls,) value, $476 ; gallons of Milk sold, 144,370 ; value, $50,529 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,520 ; value, $2,682 ; lbs. of Cheese, 716;  value,  $99.
Beef, dressed, lbs., J 18,450; value, $11,840. Pork, dressed, lbs., 52,750 ; value, $7,912. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 4,860 ; value, $486. Veal, dressed, lbs., 83,750 ; value, $4,050.
Swine,  482 ; value,  $8,984;  value  df Poultry  sold,  $268 ; value of
Eggs  sold, $414 ; value of unenumerated  articles of  Farm  Produce,
$1,827.
Apple-Parers establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value m'd, $82,750 ; value of stock used, $30,000; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp.,  12.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	587
WORCESTER Co.	LUNENBURG. •


LUNENBURG.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $50 ; wheels m'd, 80 ; value, $166; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Master Builders, 2 ; Buildings erected, 2 ; value, $3,000 ; value of materials used, $2,200 ; hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; volue of stock used, $150 ; value of work done,
$400 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 8.
Shoes of all kinds m'd, pairs, 25,250 ; value of stock used, $6,MO ; value of shoes m'd, $13,000 ; cap., $1,600 ; m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 20. Palm  Leaf ·Hats, Hoods, and  Bonnets, establishments  for the  m. of,   1;
value  of stock  used,  $1,000 ; palm  leaf  hats  m'd, 12,750 ; value,
$2,200 ; cap., $2,500 ; f. emp., 125.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock. used, $2,500; casks m'd, 8,000 ; value, $8,200; cap., $1,600 ; hands emp., 5.
Ice  for  market,  establishments  for  the  preservation  of, 1.; tons  of  ice
preserved, 800 ; value, $600 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2:
Saw Mills,  5 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  675,000 ; value,
$9,150 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 628,000 ; value, $8,400 ; cap., $9,500 ; hands emp., 9.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,589 ; value, $5,523 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 21.
Farms, 280 ; acres, 17,9571 ; value, including Buildings, $601,840 ; acres improved, 3,236i ; persons emp., 259.
Unimproved Land, acres, 6,191. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,499. Woodland, acres, 6,031 ; value, $201,258.
Indian Com, acres, 223; bush., 8,853; value, $14,876. Wheat, acres, 27 ; bush., 821 ; value,  $i75.
Rye, acres, 17 ; bush., 225 ; value, $401. Barley, acres, 51; bush., 905 ; value, $1,251. Buckwheat, acres, Sf ; bush., 57 ; value, $64. Oats, acres, 74 ; bush., 1,763; value, $1,763.
Herdsgrass Seed, acres, 1; bush., 9 ; value, $58. Potatoes, acres, 184 ; bush., 18,885 ; value, $7,124.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop;acres, 11; bush., 1,817 ; value, $395.
Onions, acres, f ; bush., 74 ; value, $148. Carrots, acres, 1l ; bush., 865 ; value, $400. Cabbage,  acres, 2!; value,  $754.
Winter SquMh, acres, l; value, $180.
Garden Seeds, acres, 1; value, $180.
588	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.

!fENDON.	WoRcEsu.a  Co.

Market  Gardening,  acres, 41;  value of  producta, $961.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, h; bush., 150 ; value, $70 ; value of Garden Seeds prepared for market, $180.
Hops, acres, lOt ; lbs., 4,000 ; value, $1,399. Tobacco, acres, 11, ; lbs., 50 ; value, $8.
Cranberries, acres, 1f ; bush., 30 ; value, $90.
English  Mowing, acres, 2,505 ; tons  of  English  bay, 2,196 ; value,
$59,359.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 670 ;  tons  of  wet  meadow  or swale  bay,  438 ; value, $5,868.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 18,848; value of apples, $11,128 ; Pear-trees cultivated for tb.eir  fruit,  1,548  ; value  of  pears,  $227 ; all   other   trees . cultivated   for  their   fruit,  1,548;  value  of fruit,
$2,121;  value  of  Nuts  or Berries  cultivated   or gathered  for market,
$715.	.
Sheep, 128 ; value, $689 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 453; value, $255.
Horses, 247,; ·value, $20,260 ; Oxen over four years old, 156 ; Steers under four years old, 108; value of oxen and steers, $15,823 ; Milch Cows, 541; Heifers, 140; value of cows  and  heifers,  $24,423;  value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (45 Bulls and Farrow Cows,)
$1,545;  gallons of Milk 65,028;  value, $10,778;  lbs.of Butter sold,
18,075 ; value, $5.882 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,214 ; value, $216. Beef, dressed, lbs., 30,678 ; value, $3,066.	· Pork, dressed, lbs., 65,164 ; value, $11,828.
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 144 ; value, $21. Veal, dreseed, lbs., 1,961; value, $208.
Swine, 277 ; value, $5,540 ; value of Poultry sold, $820 ; value of Eggs sold, $1,108; lbs. of Honey, 832; value, $104 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 17 ; value, $9 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $3,634. All other articles m'J in the family for sale and not  before enumerated,
value, $810. Grapes, value, $101.


:MEND9N.
Shoddy, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,520 ; Iba. of shoddy m'd, 108,000 ; value, $5,400 ; cap., $3,000 ; m. emp., 3 ; f. emp., 2.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; Yalue of stock used, $600 ; value of work done,
$1,494 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 8.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	589
WORCESTER  Co.	MENDON,

Boot.'I,  pairs   of  all  kinds  m'd,  50,400 ;  gross   value   of  stock  used,
$99,500 ; value of boots m'd, $159,000 ; cap., $175,000 ; m. emp.; 63 ;  f. emp., 8.
Boot .Boxes, establishments for the m.of, 3; value of stock used, $6,750; value of Wooden Boxes made, $9,245 ; cap., $2,650 ; m. emp., 9.
Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  240,000 ; value,
$8,079 ; Shingles, prepared for market, 183,000 ; value, $682 ; cap., $2,050 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 655 ; value, $4,141 ; cap., $1,900; hands emp., 5.
Farms, 210 ; acre!, 11,197!; value, including Buildings, $490,130; acres improved, 5,484f ; persons emp., 162.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,982!, Woodland, acres, 8,730t ; value, $92,166.
Indian Com, acres, 1851; bush., 5,683; value, $8,449. Wheat, acres, 51;  bush.,  156 ; value, $312.
Rye, acres, 8lf ; bush., 898; value, $786. Barley, acres, 17 ; bush., 286; value, $429. Buckwheat, acres, 2 ; bush.;50 ; value, $75. Oats, acres, 75! ; bush., 1,552 ; value, $1,552.
Potatoes, acres, l 14f ; bush., 9,986 ; value; $7,989.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8 ; bush., 604 ; value, $261•
. Onions, acres, n ; bush., 25 ; value, $58.
Carrots, acres, t ; bush., 55 ; value, $25. C&bbage,  acres,!; value, $40.
Tobacco, lbs., 40 ; value, $8.
Cranberries, acres, 80!; bush., 184f ; value, $501.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,577!; tons  of  English  bay, 1,279t ; value,
$81,084.	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 544f ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 366!; value, $4,575.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 9,788 ; value of apples, $4,045 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 416 ; value of pears, $60; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $836.
Sheep, 28 ; value, $275 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 129 ; value, $68.
Horses, 139 ; value, $10,870 ; Oxen over four years old, 126 ; Steers under four years old, 47 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,860 ; Milch Cows, 848 ; Heifers, 79 ; value of cows and heifers, $16,100 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, $925 ; gallons of Milk sold, 10,925 ; value, $t,185 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,141; value,  $2,856 ; lbs. of Cheese, 770 ; value, $123.	'
590	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
MILFORD.	WORCESTER  Co.

Beef, d_ressed, lbs., 23,180 ; value, $2,540. Pork, dressed, lbs., 60,000; value, $10,816. Mutton, dressed, value, $96.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 11,495 ; value, $1,423.
Swine, 175 ; value, $1,001 ; value of Poultry sold, $499 ; value of Eggs sold, $578 ; lbs. of Honey, 40 ; value, $12 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 91 ; value, $10 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $75.


MILFORD.
Hollow Ware and Castings other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $11,537.70 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 60 ; l'alue $16,038; cap., $10,475 ; hands emp., 5.
Cotton, Woollen and Boot and Shoe Machinery, establishment&  for  m. of, 6 ; gross value of stock used, $29,027.85 ; value of Machinery m'd,
$67,539.79 ; cap., $32,154 ; hands emp., 88.
Printing and Newspaper Establishment&, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,800 ;
newspapers  printed,  (Milford Journal,)  1; issued weekly ; value,
$4,000; cap., $1,500 ; value of all other printing done, $3,700 ; cap.,
$2,500; m. emp., 6.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 8 ; value of stock used,
$2,420; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 17,240 ; value, $7,800 ;
cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 6.
Harnesses,  establishments  for  the m. of, 2 ; number  m'd, 100 ; value,
$5,000 ; value of stock used, $3,680; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 6.
Hat and  Cap  Manufactories, 1; value  of stock  used, $300 ; hats and
caps m'd, 200 ; value, $600 ; cap., $200; m. emp., 1.
Wagons,  establishments  for  the  m.  of,  3; wagons  m'd,  19 ;   value,
$2,032 ; value of stock used, $525 ; value of repairing, $8,800 ; cap.,
$1,200 ; hands emp., 7 ; amount received for repairing, $8,800.
Confectionery,  establishments  for the m. of,  1; value  of  stock  used,
$1,500 ;  lbs. of confectionery  made, G,900 ;  value,  $2,300 ; cap.,
$500 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock used, $19,000 ;
value of Clothing  m'd, $28,655.87 ; cap., $10,800 ; m. emp.,  11 ;
f. emp., 17.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of  stock  used,  $866 ; bbls. soft soap m'd, 120; value, $537 ; lbs. of hard soap, 1,000 ; value, $100 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Builders, 6 ; Buildings erected, 12 ; value, $47,000; value of materials used, $35,500 ; bands emp., 18.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	591
WORCESTEB  Co.	MILl'OBD.

Blacksmith  Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $8,000;  value of work  done,
$8,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 9.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $5,000; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories; 4 ; value of stock used, $12,000 ; value of tin
ware m'd, $21,200 ; cap., $9,000 ; bands emp., 8.
Grist Mille, 8 ; bush. of Grain ground, 85,000; value, $60,256; value when ground, $68,350; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 3.
Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $12,000; Hides curried, 3,508 ; value of Leather curried, $15,500; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,119,229 ; Shoes, pairs of  all kinds m'd,
111,190 ; value of stock used  in the manufacture of  boots and shoes,
$2,119,701;   value    of   boots    and    shoes    m'd,   $3,291,804;  cap.,
$517,153; m. emp., 2,000 ; £ emp., 187.	•
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $170,000; straw bonnets m'd, 100,000 ; value, $150,000 ; straw hats m'd, 125,000 ; value, $110,000; cap., $30,000 ; m. emp., 85 ; f. emp., 400.
Last Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,500; lasts m'd, 15,000 ;
value, $10,952 ; cap., $4,000 ; bands emp , 8.
Cofflne and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufa.ctories of, 1; value of stock used, $3,500 ; coffins made, 700; value, $4,900 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Boxes, value of stock used fol tho m. of, $21,()00 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $33,000 ; cap., $9,000 ; m. emp., 21.
Gae, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000; value of gas m'd, $11,000 ; cap., $82,000 ; bands emp., 3.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 2 ; tone of ice preserved for market, $600 ; value, $2,000 ; cap., $800 ; bands emp., 2.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock used, $30,000 ; value of Bread m'd, $42,000 ;
cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Saw  Mills,  2 ; feel of Lumber  prepared  for  market,  85,000 ; value,
$1,500 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 1.
Firewood  and   Bark  prepared  for  market,  cords,  360 ; value,  $1,800  ;
cap., $950 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 184 ; acres, 7,888; value, including Buildings, $402,900 ; acres
5,024 ; persons emp., 160.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,445.
Unimprovable Land, acres, U4.
592	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1866•  .

MILFORD.	Woncv.sTER Co.

Woodland, acres, 2,117 ; value, $47,965.
Indian Corn, acres, 158!; bush., 5,828; value, $10,656. Wheat, acres, 1; bush., 8 ; value,  $16.
Rye, acres, 18 ; bush., 229 ; value, $348.50. Barley, acres, 16 ; bush., 245 ; value, $368. Oats, acres, 82 ; bush., 608 ; value, $450.
Potatoes, acres, 184:; bush., 18,400 ; value, $16,560.
Turnips, cultivated as a field crop, acres, 4 ; bush., 700; value, $850. Carrots, acres, 13l ; bush., 485 ; value, $242.50.
Cabbage, acres, 81; value, $1,754. Winter Squash, acres, 2t ; value, S140.
Market Gardening, acres, 21t ; value of products,  $8,868.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 1 ; bll!h., 800 ; value, $150. Cranberries, acres, 16; bush., 215; value, $1,290.
English   :Mowing,  acres,  1,404 ;  tona  of   English  hay,  1,293 ;    value,
$38,790.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 498 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 378; value, $5,210.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 14,191; value of apples, $7,116 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,233 ;  value  of  pears,  $406 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 21 ; value of fruit,  $84 ;  value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $2,500.
Saxony Sheep of different grades, 4 ; Merino Sheep of different grades, · 8 ; all other kinds of sheep, 4 ; gross value, $82.50 ; lbs.. of Wool produced from Saxony sheep, 27 ; value, $16; lbs. of all other wool produced, 5 ; value, $8.25.
Horses, 461 ; value, $58,t 60 ; Oxen over four years old, 88 ; Steers under four years old, 8 ; value of oxen and steers, $7,330 ; Milch Cows, 500 ; Heifers, 84 ; value of cows and heifers, $27,015 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (4 Bulls,)  $310 ; gallons  of Milk sold, 82,733; value, $7,921.50 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 6,230 ; value, $2,091.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 22,6-15 ; value, $2,420. Pork, dressed, lbs., 92,160 ; value, $13,824. Veal, dressed, lbs., 7,998; value, $979.50.
Swine, 227 ; value, $8,405 ; value of Poultry sold, $298.50 ; value of Eggs sold, $:375 ; Imo. of Honey, 145 ; value, $58 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of  Farm Produce, $929.
Sewing-Machine Needles, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; articles m'd, 85,000 ; value, $7,484 ; value of stock used, $500; eap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 4: ; f. emp., 8.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	593
WORCESTEB Co.	MILLBURY.


MJLLBURY.

Cotton Mills, 8 ; number of Spindles, 23,908; lbs. Cotton consumed, 441,704; value of stock used, $428,885; yards Printing Cloth m'd, 268,750; yards of Sheetings m'd, 1,000,000; yards of Tickings m'd, 806,750 ; gross value of the cloth m'd, $471,278; yards Satinets Warps m'd, 100,000; value, $148,648.26 ; cap., $255,000 ; m. emp., 181; f. emp:, 161.
Woollen Mills, 5 ; sets Woollen Machinery, 20 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 804,196; value, $882,873; yards of Casaimere m'd, 282,042; value,  $464,084 ; yards  of  Satinet m'd,  24.0,000 ; value,
·t96,000 ; lbs. of Woollen Yam m'd and not made into cloth, 180,000; value, $65,000; cap., $240,000 ; m. emp., 153; f. emp., 166.
Hosiery, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $125,000; dozens Shirts, Drawers, and  Socks m'd, 5,000; value of  hosiery m'd,
$100,000;  lbs.  of  Yarn  m'd  and. not  made  into  hosiery,   50,000;
value, $100,000; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp., 63; £ emp., 75.
Hollow Ware and Castings other than pig iron, furnaces for the m. of; 1; value of stock used, $26,000 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 850; value, $40,000 ; cap., $5,000; hands emp.,  18.
Chisels, Drawing  Knives, and  other Edge Toole, establishments  for  the
m. of, 2; value of stock used, $18,066 ; dozens of ChistJls, Drawing Knives  and  other  edge  tools  m'd, 11,000;  value,  $51,000; cap.,
$16,000 ; hands emp., 35.
Mechanics' Tools m'd and not elsewhere enumerated, value, $5,500; value of stock used, $1,750 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Saddles and Harnesses, establishments for the m. of, 1; harnesses m'd, 8; value, $360; value of stock used, $125 ;  cap.,  $100 ;  hands emp., 1.
Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for m. of, 2 ; coaches, chaises, and wagons m'd, 42; value, $9,500 ; valne of stock used, $5,800; cap.1 $3,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ;
value of clothing m'd, $3,800 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 2 ; £ emp., 2.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of articles from,  1; value  of stock  used,  $200 ; Gravestones m'd, 22;  value,
$400 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.	·
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value  of  stock  11Sed, $150 ; bbls.
soft soap m'd, 800; value, $1,800;  cap., $200;  blUlQS emp., 2.
75
STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
MILLBURY.	W0BCE8TEB  Co.

Master BuilderR, 8 ; Buildings erected, 12 ; value, $82,100; value   of
materials  used,  $19,100 ; hands  e111p., 20.
Blacksmith Shope, 5; value of stock used, $1,650; value of work done,
$7,150 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 7.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; value of tin ware m'd, $700 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Shoes of all kinds m'd, pairs, 17,756 ; value of stock used, $12,556; value of shoes m'd, $86,133 ; cap., $18,000 ; m. emp., 62 ; £ emp., 10.
Cigars  m'd,  value,  $8,800; value  of   the  stock  used,  $1,800 ;  cap.,
$1,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Whip Manufactories, 1; value of the stock used, $100 ; dozens of whips m'd, 85; value, $400 ; cap., $100.
Planing :Mills and establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ; value of sashes, doon; and blinds  m'd, $43,000 ; value  of all other  work  done,  $1,000; cap.,
$12,000 ; hands emp., 26.
Boxes,  establishments  for  the  m. of, 1; value  of stock  used,  $500 ;
value of  Wooden  Boxes made, $900 ; cap., $500;  m. emp.,  2.
Ice for market, establishments fo the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved, 125 ; value, $750 ; cap., $300; hands emp., 1.
Saw Mills,  4;  feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  637,215 ; value,
$12,550 ; cap., $3,400 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood  and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 1,294 ; value, $5,515 ;
cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 103 ; acres, 7,887 ; value, including Buildings, $328,475; acres
improved, 2,956 ; persons emp., 157.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,144. Unimprovable Land, acres, 283. Woodland, acres, 1,970; value,  $55,250.
Indian Corn, acres, 182 ; bush., 6,795 ; value, $10,192.
Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 27 ; value, $54.
Rye, acres, 83i; bush., 528; value, $1,056. Barley, acres, 45 ; bush., 1,08G ; value, $1,629. Buckwheat, acres, Hf ; bush.. 252 ; value, $378. Oats, acres, 117 ; bush., 3,433 ; value, $3,433.
Potatoes, acres, 127 ; bush., 12,773; value, $9,579.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop, acres, 6i ; bush., 1,651 ; valuo,
$412.75.	•
Onions, acres, f ; bush., 200; value, $375.
Carrots, acres, 8; bush., 1,038 ; value, $260.
l865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	595
WoRcESTER  Co.	NEW  BRAINTREE.


Cabbage, acres, 8 ; value, $916.
Winter Squash, acres, lt ; value, $2J8.
Market Gardening, acres, 1; value, $442.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 8 ; bush., 875 ; value, $600.
Tobacco, acres, 9 ; lbe., 6,800 ; value, $1,360. Sorghum, acres, l; gallons of Sirup, 60 ; value, $60. Cranbemes, acres, 11; bush., 87 ; value, $111.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,677 ; tons  of  English  hay,  1,906 ; value,
$47,6.52.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 885 ; tons of wet meadow  or swale hay, 874 ; value, $4,675.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 14,842 ; value, $8,114 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 2,872 ; value of pears, $647 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 885 ; value  of the fruit, $88;  value of  Nute or  Bernes  cultivated  or gathered  for market, $118.
Sheep, 147 ; value, $1,029 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 664 ; value, $898. Horses, 279 ; value, $28,470 ; Mules, 2; value, $150; Oxen over four years old, 88 ; Steers under four years old, 84 ; value of oxen and steers, $10,970 ; Milch Cows, 894 ; Heifers, 154 ; value of cows and heifers, $24,171; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (5 Bulls,)
$880 ; gallons of Milk sold, 17,768 ; value, $8,907.86 ; lbs. of Batter sold, 11,209 ; value, $4,488.60 ; lbs. of Cheese, 1,810 ; value, $384.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 188,950 ; value, $22,674. Pork, dressed, lbs., 78,618 ; value, $11,041.95. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 5,325 ; value, $692.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 28,650 ; value, $8,581.
Swine, 262 ; value, $4,064 ; value of Poultry eold, $897 ; value  of Eggs sold, $1,072 ; lbs. of Honey, 885; value, $98;  lbs.  of  Bees­ wax, 10 ; value, $4 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $535.
Cider Milla, 2 ; bbls. of Cider m'd, 370; value, $1,110.
Bayonet.a and Component parts of Springfield Muskets, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; number m'd, 55,000 ; value, $112,000 ; value of stock used, $37,000; cap., $40,000 ; m. emp., 100.

NEW  BRAINTREE.

l!aater Builders, 4 ;. Buildings erected, 1; value, $6,000 ; value of materials used, $4,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Blacksmith Shope, 2 ; value of stock used, $600 ; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 8.
596	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(18.
NEW   BRAINTREE,	WoacEsTER Co.

Saw Mills,  1; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market,  150,000 ; value,
$2,700.
Firewood prepared for market, conls, 8,000; value, $9,000.
Farms, 97 ; acres, 11,944 ; value, including Buildings, $360,160 ; acres improved, 10,220; persons emp., 177.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,723.
Unimprovable ·Land, acres, 794.
Woodland, acres, 1,446;  value, $47,910.
Indian Corn, acres, 217 ; bush., 6,450 ; value, $12,900.
Wheat, acres, 41; bll8b., 67 ; value, $168.
Rye, acres, 40 ; bush., 481 ; value, $962.
Barley, acres, 57 ; bush., 1,541; value, $2,311.50.
Buckwheat,  acres,  5;  bush., 59 ;  value,  $74. Oat.a, acres, 220 ; bush., 8,865 ; value, $8,865. Wheat  and  Oats,  acres,  2 ; bush.,  58;  value,  $72.
Potatoes, acres, 141 ; bush., 11,887 ; value, $5,944:.
Turnips cultivated os a field crop, acres, 2 ; bush., 800; value, $200.
.Tobacco, acres, 8; lbs., 4,800 ; value, $1,200.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,186;   tons  of  English  bay,  2,445 ;   value,
$61,125.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 660;  tons of wet meadow or swale
bay, 578; value, $8,595.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,764 ; value of apples, $2,659; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  138 ;  value of pears,  $60 ; value  of Nuts  cultivated  or gathered  for market, $35.
Sheep, 64 ; value, $640 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 266 ; value, $190.
Horses, 150 ; value, $12,000; Oxen over four years old, 108; Steers under four years old, 12 ; value of oxen and steers, $10,500 ; Milch Cows, 1,016; Heifers, 168; value of cows and heifers,  $45,000 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced  above, (27 Bulls,)  $1,600 ; gallons of  Milk  sold, 4,000 ; value, $900; lbs. of  Butter eold,  6,738;  value,
$8,869 ; lbs. of Cheese, 239,980; value, $42,269.
Beef, dreBBed, lbs., 111,836; value, $11,755. Pork, dreBBed, lbs., 72,723; value, t12,088. Vea1, dressed, lbs., 82,679; value, $10,762.
Swine, 201 ; value, $2,800 ; value of Poultry sold, $448 ; value of Eggs sold, $298 ; lbs. of Honey, 200 ; value, $50 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 6 ; value, $8.
Flannel m'd in tho family, yards, 16; value, $20. •
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .
597
 	•	
WORCESTER   Co.	NORTHBOROUGH,

NORTHBOROUGH.
Cotton Mills, 1; Cotton Spindles, 2,000 ; lbs. Cotton consumed, 100,000 ; gross value of stock used, $45,000 ; yards of Brown Sheetings m'd, 300,000; gross value ·of cloth m'd, $62,000 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 15 ; £ emp., 21.
Chronometers, Watches, Gold and Silver Ware and Jewelry, establish­ ments  for  the  m.  of,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $1,750;  value m'd,
$8,500; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 4; £ emp., 1.
Clothing, establishments  for  the  m. of, 1; value of  stock used,  $1,600 ;
value of clothing m'd, $3,000 ; cap., $350 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 2. Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 200 ; value, $1,200 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp.,	,  Black.smith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done,
$2,500 ; cap., $400 ; hands emp., 3.
Comb Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $11,500; dozens of combs  m'd, 27,540 ; value,  $33,500;  cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 23;
f. emp., 5.
Flouring Mills, 7 ; bush. Grain ground, 14,100; value, $21,150; cap.,
$4,000; hands emp., 3.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $12,000 ; Hides tanned, 2,000; Hides tanned and curried, 2,000; value of Leather tanned and curried, $16,000 ; cap., $10,000; hands emp., 4. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 130; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 70,410; value of stock used, $45,470; value of boots and shoes m'd, $67,900 ;
cap., $7,150 ; m. emp., 38; £ emp., 14.
Boxes, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; value  of stock used,  $4,000 ;
value of  Wooden Boxes made, $5,000; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved, 400 ; value, $327 ; cap., $500 ; Jiands emp., i •
Saw Mills,  6; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 458,000 ; value,
$10,060 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 200,000; value, $690 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, conht, 1,245 ; value, $5,5f7 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 3.
Farms, 144 ; acres, 10,488 ; value, including Buildings, $598,000 ;
acres of land improved, 6,953 ; persons emp., 175.
Unimproved  Land, aqes, 1,952.
Unimprovable Land, 80.
Woodland, acres, 1,503 ; value, $70,080.
Indian Coro, acres, 263; bush., 9,116; value, $15,963.
598	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
NORTBBRIDG E,	WORCESTER    Co.

Wheat, acres, 2i ; bush ., 28 ; value, $84. · Rye, acres, 40 ; bush ., 576 ; value. Sl,152. Barley, acres, 41; bush., 108; value, $189. Buckwheat, acres, 8 ; bush ., 20 ; value, $30. Oats, acres, 9-1: ; bush., 2,279 ; value, $2,280• .
Potatoes, acres, 103; bush., 11,039 ; value,  $6,234.
Turnips  cultivated  as a field  crop, acres,  16}; bush.,  1,700 ; value,
$400.
Cranberries, acres, l ; bush., 15 ; value, $60.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,675 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,882 ; value,
$56,460.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 74t ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 660; value, $9,900.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,882; value of apples, $4,930 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 888; value of  pears,  $470;  all  other trees  cultivated for their  fruit,  100 ; value of  fruit, $20;  value of  Nuts or  Berries cultivated  or gathered  for market, $155.
Sheep, 95; value, $653 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 516; value, $278.
Horses, 205 ; value, $18,800 ; Oxen over four years old, 72; Steers under four years old, 81 ; value of oxen and .steers, $7,620 ; Milch Cows, 560 ; Heifers, 128 ; value of cows and heifers, $22,755; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, $2,000 ; gallons of Milk sold, 134,031; value, $26,800 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 9,919 ; value, $8,967 ; lbs. of Cheese, 845 ; value, $48.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 168,788; value, $18,709. Pork, dressed, lbs., 64,585; value, $10,979. Mutton,  dressed,  lbs., 896;  value, $61.
Veal, dressed, lbs.,  19,290;  value, $1,929.
Swine, 118; value, $1,981 ; value of Poultry sold, $782 ; value of Eggs sold, $588 ; lbs. of Honey, 205 ; value, $81; value of unenumerated articles of  Farm Produce,  $8,000.
Ground Bone Mill, 1; value of stock, $3,000 ; value m'd, $5,000 ; cap.;
$6,000;  m.  emp., 1l,


NORTHBRIDGE.
Cotton Mills, 2 ; Cotton Spindles, 17,000 ; lbs. of Cotton consumed, 265,028 ; gross value of stock used, $278,12a ; yardoi of Cotton Cloth m'd, 1,2n9,009; value, $355,460 ; cap., $190,000 ; m. emp., 78; f. emp., 147.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	599
WORCESTEB  Co.	NORTHBRIDGE.

Cotton, Woollen  and  other  Machinery, establli>hments  for the m. of, 1;
groes  value   of  stock   used,   $168,800;   value  of   machinery  m'd,
$825,400 ; cap., $175,000 ; hands emp., 250.
Scythe Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $5,170; dozens of scythes m'd, 3,100 ; value, $21,550; cap., $30,000 ; bands emp., 16.
Wagons, establishments for the m. of, 1; wagons m'd, 4 ; value, $500 ;
value of stock used, $200 ; cap., $150; hands emp., 1.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $60; wheels m'd, 25;  value, $125;  hands  emp.,  1.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock  used, $3,000 ;
value of clothing m'd, $5,500 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 4.
Master Builders, 8 ; Buildings erected, 13 ; value, $70,000 ; value of materials used, $80,000 ; hands emp., 24.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $250 ; value of custom repairing,  &e.,  $1,500 ; cap.,  $600 ;  hands emp., 3.	· Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 42,150 ; Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd, 1,800  ;  gross value  of  stock  used,  $80,400 ; value  of  boots  and shoes
m'd, $125,700 ; cap., $50,200; m. emp , 86; f. emp., 6.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $35 ; coffins m'd, 10 ; value, $75; bands emp., 1.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 2 ; ton3 of ice prese"ed for market, 75 ; value, $375;  cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Stone Quarries, 1; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $16,000;	P·, $8,000 ; hands emp., 40.
Saw Mills, 3 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 325,000 ; value,
$5,750; Shingles prepared for market, 300,000 ; value, $750 ; cap.,
$1,600; hands emp., 3.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 2,136; value, $6,931.
Farms, 82 ; acres, 6,162 ; value, including Buildings, $207,395; acres improved,  3,822 ; persons  emp., 108.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 215.
•Unimprovable  Land, acres, 20.
Woodland and Sprout Land, acres, 3,091 ; value, $118,185.
Indian Com, acres, 138 ; bush., 4.011 ; value, $6,016.
Wheat, acres, Sf; bush., 31; value, $7i.50. Rye, acres, 26 ; bush., 235 ; value, $352.50. Barley, acres, 3; bush., 51; value, $51.
Buckwheat, acres, 3 ; bush., 40; value, $50. Oats, acres, 115 ; bush ., 2,709 ; value, $2,031.75. White Beans, acres, 5 ; bush., 111 ; value, $338. Potatoes, acres, 111; bush., 9,724 ; value, $7,294.
600	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
NORTH   BROOKFIELD.	WoacE&TEB Co•

.Turnips cultivated as a field crop, l ; bush., 110 ; value, $66. Carrots, acres,  ; bush., 150; value, $75.
Cabbage, acres, i ; value,  $75. Winter Squash, acres, ·I ; value, $35.
Cranberries, acres, 29 ; bush., 59 ; value, $236.
English Mowing, acres, 883 ; tons of English bay, 715 ; value, $21,"50.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 398 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 255 ; value, $3,825.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,627 ; value of apples, $1,587 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 432 ; value of pears, $125 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 250 ; value, $90 ; value of Shagbarks cultivated or gathered for market, $129 ; value of Wbor­ tleberries cultivated or gathered for market, $100.
Grapes, &c., value, $75.
Sheep, 23 ; value, $161 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 135;  value,  $100.
Horses, 162 ; value, $12,960 ; Oxen over four years old, 118 ; Steers under four years old, 42 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,920; Milch Cows, 295 ; Heifers, 78 ; value ·of cows and heifers, $15,850 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (29 Bulls and Dry Cows,  &c.,)
$1,160 ·; gallons of Milk sold, 17,360 ; value, $4,840 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 7,260 ; value, $:!,904 ; lbs. of Cheese,.1,245 ; value, $249.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 77,8i6 ; value, $7,787.60. Pork, dressed, lbs., 80,805 ; value, $14,544.96. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 700 ; value, $105.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 8,433;  value,  $1,011.06.
Swine, 115; value, $1,380 ; value of Poultry sold,·$474 ; value of Eggs sold, $652 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, ((00 gardens at $8 each,) $3,200.


NORTH  BROOKFIELD.
Mechanics' Tools  m'd, value, $400;  value of stock used, $50 ;  cap.,
$50 ; hands emp., 1.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock used, S500 ; daguerreotypes and photographs t.akeu, 1,200 ; value, $1,000; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 1.
Harnes,,es,  establishments  for  the m. . of;  1; harnel!Ses  m'd,  8 ; value,
$254 ; value of stock used, $125 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1.
Port Monnaies, Pocket Books, and Wallets, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; dozt'ns of each m'd, 12,347 ; value, $47,775.48; value of stock used, $38,750 ; cap., $10,000 ; m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 56.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF  MASSACHUSETTS. 	601
WORCESTER  Co.	NORTH BROOJCPIELD.

Clothing,  establishments  fur m. of,  1; value  of  stock  used, $6,000;
value of clothing m'd, $i,OOO ; cap., $2,000 ; ·m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 5.
Master Builders, 5; Buildings erected, 5; value, $11,000; value of the materials used, $7,888; bands emp., 12.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $600 ; value of work done,
$2,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 4.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; value of tin ware m'd, $350 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 2.
Tanning and Cunying Establishments, 8; value of stock used, $4,807 ; HidtlB tanned and curried, 10,985 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $38,751; cap., $10,700;  hands emp., 14.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 269,288 ; ·Shoes, pairs of all kinds -m'd, 211,520 ; gross value of stock used, $724,449 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $865,595; cap., $153,150; m. emp., 624 ; f. emp., 88.
Boxes, establishments  for  the  m.  of,  2;  value  of  stock  used,  $7,087;
value of Wooden Boxes made, $8,675 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 8.
Ru.or Strops, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $1,250; value m'd, $2,500 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, l ; tons of ice preserved, 100 ; value, $200; cap., $75 ; hands emp., 2.
Saw  Mills,  4;  feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  775,000; value,
$11,625 ; Shingles prepared for market, 22•,000 ; value, $660.
Firewood  prepared   for  market,  cords,  4,900;  value,  $14,700 ; cap.,
$2,500 ; hands emp., 50.
Farms,  128; acres,  13,409 ; value, including  Buildinga,  $800,000 ;
acres of land improved, 10,500 ; persoDS emp., 210,
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,909. Unimprovable Land, acres, 700. Woodland, acres, 1,836 ; value, $105,570.
Indian  Corn, acres, 136!;.bush., 4,010 ; value, $6,015.
Wheat, acres, 31; bush., 54;  value,  $108.
Rye, acres, i; bush., 5 ; value, $7.50.
Barley, acres, 12 ; bwm., 287 ; value, $430.50. Buckwheat, acres, 8; bush., 100; value, $100. Oats, acres, 115 ; bush., 8,702; value, $2,776.50. Potatoes, acres, 140 ; bush., 13,000 ; value, $,500.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, f ; bush., 103;  value,  $48.
Carrots,'acres, 1; bUBh., 320 ; value, $165.
English  )lowing,  acres,  1,154 ; tons  of  English  hay,  787 ; value,
$11,0J5.
76
602	STATISTICS  OF THE	[186'i.
0..&.KBAM.	WORCESTEB   Co.

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 544; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 457 ; value, $3,199.
Apple-trees cultivated for their frµit, 4,871 ; value, $3,833 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,252 ; value, $592 ; ·value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $140.
Sheep, 44 ; value, $177 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 182 ; value, $91.
Horses, 223 ; value, $15,850 ; Oxen over four years old,  133;  Steers under  four  years  old, 140 ; value  of  oxen  and  steers,  $15,080 ; Milch Cows, 440 ; Heifers, 109 ; value,  $18,835 ;  value  of  Neat Stock not embraced above, {1.15 Yearlings, 125 2-Year-olds, 20 Far­ row Cows, 15 Bulls, 15 Colts,) $5,280 ; gallons of Milk sold, 16,012 ; value, $2,177 ; pounds of Butter sold, 8,755 ; value, $3,502 ; pounds of   Cheese,  14,850;  value, $2,673.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 140,000 ; value,  $24,000.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 46,375 ; value, $6,492.50.	a
Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,040 ; value, $128. Veal, dressed, lbs., 24,000 ;  value, $2,400.
Swine, 105 ; value, $1,363 ; value of Poultry sold, $500 ; value of Eggs sold, $250.


OAKHAM.

Ploughs and other Agricultural Implements, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $300 ; ploughs m'd, 25 ; value, $300 ; Cultivators and Harrows m'd, 80 ; value, $350; cap.; $600 ; hands emp., 1.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; value of  stock  used,  $275;  value of  work done,
$700 ; cap., $500 ; hands ernp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. of Grain ground, $4,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Wire Safes, Sieves, Dish Covers, and other articles made wholly or in part of wire, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $14,170; arti­ m'd, 130,428 ; value, $22,385; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 27. Planing Mills and establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors and Blinds, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,000 ; value of sashes, doors and blinds m'd,
$3,000 ; value of all other work done, $7,000 ; cap., $7,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Saw Mills, 3; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  475,000; value,
$8,025.
Firewood and B11rk prepared  for market, cards, 254 : value, $1,016,
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	608
WORCESTER  Co.	OXFORD.

Farms, 182; acres, 12,615 ; value, including Buildings, $228,980 ; acres improved, 6,457 ; persons emp., 134.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,751. Unimprovable Lan(l, acres, 102. Woodlaod,	2,068 ; value, $89,568.
Indian Corn, acres, 182 ; bush., 8,087 ; value, $4,630.
Wheat, acres, 6 ; bush., 62; value, $155.
Rye, acres, 9f ; bush., 74 ; value, $148. Barley, acres, 22i; bush., 528; value, $1,056. Buckwheat, acres, ; bush., 12 ; valuti, $18. Oats, acres, 127! ; bush., 8,042 ; value, $3,042.
Potatoes, acres, 105 ; bush., 7,669 ; value, $5,751.
English  Mowing,  ftCl'CS,   1,636 ; tons of  English  hay,  1,215 ; value,
$24,300.
Wet Meadow ·or Swale mown, acres, 423 ; tons of  wet  meadow  or swale hay, 282 ; value, $2,820.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit, 2,915;  value of apples, $1,808.
Sheep, 196 ; value, $1,041 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 934 ; value, $700.
Horses, 124 ; value, $9,705; Oxen over four years old, 104 ; Steers under four years old, 63; value of oxen and steers, $10,653; Milch Cows, 895; Heifers, 58; value of cows and heifers, $15,534 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (5 Bulls,) $200 ; gallons of Milk sold, 600; value, $120; Iba. of Butter sold, 13,335 ; value, $5,334 ; Iba. of Cheese, 51,626 ; value, $10,325.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 83,775;  value,  $3,877.50.
Pork, dressed, Iba., 43,030 ; value, $8,606.
Mutton, dressed, Iba., 600 ; value, $90.
Veal, dressed, Iba., 28,000 ; value, $2,800.
Swine, 93; value, $1,389 ; value of Poultry sold, $392 ; value of Eggs sold, $411 ; Iba. of  Honey, 15; value, $5.
Patent Water-Wheels m'd, 5 ; value, $1,000.


OXFORD.

Cotton Mills, 2 ; Cotton Spindles, 1,882 ; Cotton consumed, lbs., 98,600 ; gross value of stock used, $93,600 ; yards of Cotton Cloth m'd, 149,845; gross value of cloth m'd, $50,000 ; Iba. of Yarn m'd and not made into cloth, 78,624 ; value, $92,982 ; m. emp., 14 ; f. emp., 12.
Woollen Mills, 8 ; sets of Woollen Machinery, 16; lbs. of Scoured Wool
604	STATISTICS OF THE		(1865. Ouoao.		WORCESTER Co.
consumed, 484,000 ; gross value of stock used, $522,000 ; yards of C888imere m'd, 887,500 ; value, $456,250 ; yards of Flannel m'd, 550,000 ; value  of  Flannel, $165,000.	•
Shoddy, establ ebments for the m. of, 1; valne of etoc used, $1,200 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 24,000 ; value, $3,200 ; cap.,$1,000 ; m. emp., 4 ;
£ emp., 4.
Blacksmith Shope, 5 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of work done,
$5,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; bands emp., 7.
Shoes of all kinds m'd, paire, 246,000 ; .value of stock used, $176,000 ; value of shoes m'd, $296,500 ; cap., $80,000 ; m. emp.,  200 ; t. emp.,  175.
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,700,000 ; value,
$30,600;  bands emp., 12.
Firewood  prepared  for  market, cords,  2,000 ;  value,  $10,000 ; cap.,
$7,500 ; bands emp., 15.	·
Farms, 97 ; acres, 15,548 ; value, including Buildings, $772,180 ; per- sons emp., 219.
Woodtand, acres, 2,400 ; value, $60,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 176 ; bush., 7,040; value, $10,560. Rye, acres, 80 ; bush., 887 ; value, $674.
Barley, acres, 25 ; bush., 880 ; value, $880. Buckwheat, acres, 8 ; bb., 186; value, $150. Oats, acres, 94 ; bush., 2,850 ; value, $2,850. Potatoes, acres,. 86 ; bush., 6,875 ; value, $5,500.
English Mowing, acres, 1,781 ; tons Englil'h hay, 1,475 ; value, $29,500.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 880;  tons of wet meadow or  swale
hay, 850 ; value, $3,500.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,886 ; value, $1,500.
Sheep, 259 ; l"alue, $1,295; lbs. of Wool produced, 1,820 ; value, $1,000. Horees, 259 ; value,  $25,900 ; Oxen  over  four years old,  140; value,
$10,520 ; Milch  Cows, 458 ; value,  $27,480; gallons of Milk sold,
4,487 ; value, $887 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 9,400 ; value, $3,760 ; lbs. of Cheese, 8,545 ; value, $582.
·Beef, dressed, lbs., 88,200 ; value, $8,820. Pork; dre".88<1,lb., 17,960; value, $3,282. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,500 ; value, $180. Veal, dressed, lbs., 8,5tl0 ; value, $500.
Poultry sold, value, $115;  Eggs sold, value,  $250.
Heeling  and  Inner  Soling  for Shoes, manufactories  of,  4; value  m'd,
$18,500 ; value of Scrap Leather used, $6,500 ; cap., $1,050 ; bande
emp., 16.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE1TS.	605
WoacESTER  Co.	PA.XTOM.


PAXTON.

Blacbmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $400 ; value of work done,
$1,000 ; cap., $300.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 82,128; value of stock used, $88,250 ; value of boots m'd, $127,948 ; cap., $41,200; m. emp.,89 ; f. emp., 11. Saw  Mills, 8; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for  market, 613,000 ; value,
$8,790; cap., $2,900 ; hands emp., 6.	·
Firewood  and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,860 ; value, $8,465 ;
cap., $300 ; hands emp., 4.
Farms, 87 ; acres, 8,085 ; value, including Buildings, $186,202 ; acres of Land improved, 7,718 ; persons emp., 68.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 871.
Indian Com, acres, 52 ; buah., 1,457 ; value, $2,820.
Wheat, acres, 2f ; bush., 83; value, $66. Rye, acres, 6 ; bush., 75 ; value, $145. Barley, acres, 40 ; bush., 726 ; value, $1,007. Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 25 ; value, $87. Oats, acres, 42 ; bush., 1,155; value, $1,121.
Potatoes, acres, 101; bush., 11,625 ; value, $7,897.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,226;  tona  of   English  hay,  820 ; value,
$26,155.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 457; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  296 ;  value, $3,111.
Apple-trees  cultivated  for  their  fruit,  918 ; value  of  apples,  $292;
Pear-trees  cultivated  for their fruit, 20 ; value of  pears,  $14.
Sheep, 165; value, $898; lbs. of Wool produced, 707 ; value, $871.40. Hones, 108; value, $8,225; Oxen over four years old, 121; Steers under four years old, 30 ; value of oxen and steers, $8,928 ; Milch Cows, 254 ; Heifers, 40; value of cows and heifers, $10,960 ; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (47 head of One and Two-year­ olds,) $1,869 ; gallons of Milk sold, 1,207 ; value, $214.40 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 9,459 ; value, $8,962; lbs. of Cheese, 2,800 ; value, $458.
Beef, dressed, lbs, 14,425; value, $1,442.50. Pork, dressed, lbs., 83,921; value, $5,797. Veal, dressed, lbs., 6,264 ; value, $626.40.
Swine, 76 ; value, $1,140; value of Poultry sold, $246.50 ; valve of Eggs sold, $650; lbs. of Honey, 185 : value, $69 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 6i; value, $5.52 ; value of unenumerated art.iclea of Farm Produce,
$349.80.
606
STATISTICS  OF THE
[1865.
PETERSHAM,

WORCESTEa  Co.


PETERSHAM.

Blacksmith  Shops, 1; value of stock used, $400 ; value of work done,
$1,000; cap., $700; bands emp., 1.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; Hides tanned, 425; value of Leather tanned, $1,600 ; cap., $950; hands emp., 1.
Straw Braid m'd and not made into bonnets or bats, value, $72 ; Palm Leaf Hats m'd, 23,076 ; value, $3,461.40.
Palm Leaf for hats, hoods, and bonnets, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,206.30; lbs. of Leaf  prepared, 8,9j5 ; value,
$1,611.25; cap., $323.50; bands emp., 1.
Palm Leaf  Hoods, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$8,000; dozen  of Shaker Hoods m'd, 5,000 ; value, $12,000 ; cap.,
$2,150; m. emp., 4; f. emp., 6.
Brick Yards, 1; bricks m'd, M,000 ; value, $350 ; cap., $175; hands emp., 1.
Casks,  establishments  for  the  m.  of, 3 ; value  of stock  used,  $6,350 ;
casks m'd, 59,000; value, $10,300 ; cap., $4,700; hands emp., 8.
Boxes,  establishments  for  the  m. of, 1; value  of stock  used,· $300 ;
value of Wooden Boxes made, $1,500 ; cap., $625 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw  Mills,  8 ; feet  of  Lumber   prepared  for  market, 560,000;  value,
$7,491.82 ;  Shingles  prepared   for  market,  316;000 ; value,  $799 ;
cap., $5,250;  bands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 691 ; value, $2,833.25 ;
cap., $1,304.25; bands emp., 3.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 1,500; value, $250; cap., $195 ; hands emp., 1.
Farms, 207 ; acres, 19,9671; value, including  Buildings, $369,612 ;
acres improved, 14,039 ; persons emp., 400.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,518. Unimprovable Land, acres, 410!, Woodland, acres, 8,385; value,  $94,628.
Indian Com, acres, 227 ; bush ., 5,759; value, $10,078.25.
Wheat, acres, 39 ; bush., 412 ; value, $1,236.
Rye, acres, 7f ; bush., 132 ; value, $264.
Barley, acres, 70;  bush.,  1,418!; value, $2,127.75.
Buckwheat, acres, 5; bush., 85; value, $52.50.
Oats, acres, 110 ; bush., 8,060 ; value, $3,060.
Herdsgrass Seed, acres, l; bush., 5 ; value, $25.
Potatoes, acres, 145M; bush., 16,069 ; value, $8,034.50.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 3f ; bush., 475 ; value, $166.25.
1865.]	INDUSTRY ON MASSACHUSETTS.	607
WoacESTEa Co.	PETERSBA.ll,

Carrots, acres, ti!; bush., 567 ; value, $283.50. Cabbage, acres, 1; value, $160.
Winter Squash, acres,	; value, $150.
Beets and other esculent  vegetables,  acres, 30 ; bush.,  6,000 ; value,
$3,000 ; value of  Garden Seeds prepared for market, $16.
English  Mowing, acres, 3,015 ; tons of English  hay, 2,300 ; value,
$69,000.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 756f ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 545; value, $8,175.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,443 ; value of apples, $4,163 ;
Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 122 ; value of pears, $101; all other i:eee cultivated  for  their  fruit, 251; value of fruit,  $301.50 ;
value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $145.80. Sheep,  425 ;  value,  $2,125 ; lbs.  of   Wool  produced,  1,884!; value,
$1,423.35.
Horses, 250 ; value, $20,000 ; Oxen over four years old, 202 ; Steers under four years old, 153 ; value of oxen and steers, $20,046 ; Milch Cows, 670 ; Heifers, 196 ; value of cows and heifers, $28,350 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (120 Farrow Cows, 14 Bulls,)
$3,920 ; gallons of Milk sold, . 1,395 ; value, $279 ; lbs. of Butter sold,  17,459 ;  value,  $6,866.20 ; lbs. of  Cheese,  50,277 ; value,
$8,816.33.
Beet; dressed, lbs., 123,008; value, $12,629.15. Pork, dressed, lbs., 48,756 ; value, $7,975.64. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 4,248 ; value, $599.20.
Veal, dressed, lbs., · 26,389 ; value, $3,703.88.
Swine, 128; value, $1,774 ; value o.f Poultry sold, $762.82 ; value of Eggs sold, $530.79 ; Honey, lbs., 385 ; value, $149.55 ; Beeswax, lbs., 20 ; va.1,Je, $13.15 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $1,437.25.
All other articles m'd  in the family  for sale and  not  before   enumerated,
$100.
Ladder Manufactories, 1; ladders m'd, 300 ; value of stock used, $300 ; value m'd, $600 ; cap., $400.
Palm Leaf Webs m'd, 22,830 ; value, $1,456.19 ; Palm Leaf Binds, 69,278; value, $1,385.58; yards of Palm Leaf Braid, 41,000 ; value,
$307.50.
608
STATISTICS  OF THE
[18M.

PS1LLIP8TON.

WoRCESTEB Co.


PHILLIPSTON.

Blacksmith Shops. 1; value of stock used, $150 ; value of work done,
$600 ; cap., $300 ; bands emp., 1.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $1,000 ; chairs and settees made, 2,000 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $2,400 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 8.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1 ; value of stock used, $2,500 ;
Hides tanned, 650 ; bides tanned and curried, 650 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $4,000 ; cap., $8,400 ; hands emp , 2.
Boxes, establishments for ihe m. of, 1; value of stock ua,f, $200 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $850 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 3 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for market, 370,000 ; value,
$5,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 200,000 ; value,  $1,000 ;  Chair  Frames  m'd,  8,500 ; value,
$500 ; cap., $8,400 ; hands emp., 5.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 460 ; value, $2,882 ; cap., $800 ; bands cmp., 3.
Farms, 103;  acres, 14,270 ; value, including Buildings, $220,490;  acres
improved, 6,821 ; persons emp., 133. Unimproved Land, acres, 3,670.
Unimprovable Laud, acres, 2,830. Woodland, acres, 949 ; value, $47,510.
Indian Corn, acres, 115 ; bush., 8,498 ; value, $5,247.
Wheat, acres, 59 ; bush., 764 ; value, $1,910. Rye, acres, 10 ; bush., 125 ; value, $250.
Barley, acres, 26 ; bush., 490 ; vale, $678. Oats, acres, 47 ; bush., 1,180 ; value, Sl,180.
Herdsgrass Seed, bush., 14; value, $84.	• Potatoes, acres, 112 ; bush., 14,892 ; value, $7,446.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5 ; bush., 540 ; value, $100. Carrots, bush., 170 ; value, $85.
Winter Squash, value, $60.
English  ?tlowing,  acres,  1,478;  tons  of  English  bay,  1,177 ;  value,
$29,425.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 458 ; tone of wet meadow or awale bay, 819 ; value, $3,828.
Apple-trees culti\·ated for their fruit, 2,421 ; value of the apples, $2,292. Sheep, 137 ; value, $685 ; Iba. of Wool produced, 623; value, $300.
Horses, 114 ; value, $8,550 ; Oxen over four years old, 99 ; Steers under  four  years  old,  109 ;  value  of  oxen  and  steers, $13,875;

•
.•
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSE1TS.	609
WoacESTER   Co.	PRINCETON.

Milch Cows, 841; Heifers, 126 ; value of cows and heifers, $16,022 ; galls. of Milk sold, 200 ; value, $44 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 17,175; value, $7,297 ; lbs. of Cheese, 12,150; value, $1,648.
Beef; dressed, lbs., 184,159 ; value, $12,832. Pork, dressed, lbs., 53,544; value, $8,562. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 3,012; value, $326. Veal, dressed, lbs., 25,749 ; value, $3,336.
Swine, 142 ; value, $1,742 ; value of Poultry sold, $585 ; value  of Eggs sold, $351; lbs. of Honey, 390; value, $112 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of  Farm  Produce, 80 bush. Beans, $90.
Chair Fes or Seats m'd,  113,000 ; value,  $12,000.


PRINCETON.

Blaclcsmith  Shops, 3; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of work  done,
$1,500; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 3.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 8 ; value or stock used, $ll,092 ; chairs and settees made, 68,405 ; value, $19,400 ; cap., $8,136; m. emp., 18.
Straw Braid m'd, value, $200 ; Palm Leaf Hats made, 600 ; value, $600.
Saw Mills, 9 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  1,182,000 ; value,
$21,065 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves ·prepared for market, 205,000 ; value, $575 ; cap., $8,550 ; hands emp., 11.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 1,851;  value, $5,553  ;
cap., $3,060;  hands emp., 6.	·
Charcoal m'd, bush., 3,500;  value,  $660 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 2.
Farms,  172 ; acres,  22,587 ;  value,  including  Buildings,  $584,242 ;
acres of land fmproved, 18,144 ; persons cmp., 240.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,335. Unimprovable Land, acres, 108.  Woodland,  acres, 4,287 ;·value,  $120,287.
Indian Corn, acres, 176 ; bush., 5,899 ; value, $10,323.25.
Wheat, acres, 45l ; bush., 478; value, $1,195. Rye, acres, 15\; bush., 183 ; value, $420.25. Barley, acres, 56; bush., 810 ; value, $1,215. Buckwheat, acres, 4 ; bush., 43 ; value, $64.50. Oats, acres, 59 ; bush., 1,311 ; value, $1,811.
Potatoes, acres, 142 ; bush., 17,110 ; value, $11,977.
Turnips  cultivated  as  a  field  crop,  acres,  91;  bush.,  1,335;   value,
$833.75.
11
610	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
RoYALSTON.	WORCESTER    Co.

Carrots, acres, 2l ; bush., 680 ; value, $815.
English Mowing, acres, 2,264 ; tons English hay, 2,067 ; value, $51,675.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 717 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 524 ; value, $6,288.
Apple-trees  culti'.vated  for  their  fruit, 8,094 ; value  of  apples, $8,157 ;
Pear-trees cultivaied for their fruit, 1,038 ; value of pears, $4,800.
Sheep,  290 ; value,  $2,590 ; lbs.  of  Wool  produced,  1,546 ;  value,
$1,884.
Horses, 219 ; value, $18,792; Oxen over four yeai:s old, 151 ; Steers under four years old, 142 ; value of oxen and steers, $20,610 ; Milch Cows, 645 ; Heifers, 120 ; value of cows and heifers, $88,260 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (12 Bulls,) $415 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 87,598;  value, $14,488; lbs. of  Cheese, 750 ; value,  $150.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 280,414 ; value, $82,50.5. Pork, dressed, lbs., 74,882 ; value, $12,599. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 8,055 ; value, $1,428. Veal, dressed, lbs., 80,979 ; value, $4,418.
Swine, 122 ; value, $8,067 ; value of Poultry sold, $723; value of Eggs sold, $279 ; lbs. of Honey, 212 ; value, $76 ; value of wienu­ merated articles of Farm Produce, 98 bush. Beans, $279.
Chair Stock, manufactories of, 6 ; value of  stock m'd, $5,580 ; value of stock used, $2,790; cap., $2,850; hands emp., 8.
Cider, bbls., 289 ; value, $956.


ROYALSTON.

Woollen Mills, 1; sets of Woollen Machinery, 4 ;  lbs.  of Scoured Wool consumed, 160,170; value of stock used, $1'4,783; yards of Cassi.mere m'd, 116,673; value, $238,846.
Brush Wood, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value m'd, $10,866 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 9.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; value  of  stock  used, $600 ; value of  work done,
$1,500 ; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 2.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $8,500 ; chairs and settees made, 8,200; value, $15,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 11.	.
Boots, pairs  of  all  kinds   m'd,  800 ; value  of  stock  used,  $800 ;  value
of boots m'd, $1,500 ; cap., $300; m. emp., 3.
Palm Leaf Hats made, 800,000 ; value, $80,000 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 8.
1865.)	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	611
WoRCESTER  Co.	ROYALSTON.


Palm Leaf for hats, hoods and bonnets, establishments for the m. or preparation of, 1; value of st.ock used, $1,800; lbs. of leaf prepared, 18,000; value, $1,800 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4-.
Pail Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,500; pails m'd, 36,000  ;
value, $5,500 ; cap., $1,500 ; bands emp., 8.
Wooden  Ware,  establishments  for  the  m. of,  1; value  of  8t.ock  used,
$2,000 ; value of ware m'd, $12,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Shoe-Peg Manufactories, 1; value of st.ock used, $1,200 ; bushels of shoe-pegs m'd, 6,000 ; value, $6,500;  cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 4-.
Saw Mil.ls,  13;  feet of  Lumber prepared  for market,  1,440,000 ; value,
$28,200 ; Shingles prepared for market, 50,000 ; cords of Stav prepared   for  market,  280;  value,  $850 ; value  of   Chair  Stock,
$5,650 ; cap., $1,200 ; bands emp., 15.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for  market, cords, 1,585 ;  value, $7,140.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 200 ; value, $50 ; bands emp., 1.
Farms,  163 ;  acres,  26,882 ;  value,  including  Buildings, $457,231;
acres improved, 12,500 ; persons emp., 214. Unimproved Land, acres, 14,382; Unimprovable Land, acres, 4,000.
Woodland, acres, 2,445 ; value, $122,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 166 ; bush., 4,635 ; .value, $6,953.
Wheat, acres. 43 ; bush., 540 ; value, $1,080.
Rye, acres, 17 ; bush., 175 ; value, $850.
Barley, acres, 67 ; bush.,  1,570;  value,  $1,962.50.
Oats, acres, 52 ; bush., 1,300;  value, $1,050.
Potatoes, acres, 128 ; bush., 15,160 ; value, $6,064.
Onions, acres, l ; bush., 50 ; value, $100.
c.arrote, acres, 3 ; bush., 600 ; value, $150.
English  Mowing, acres, 2,775 ; tons English bay, 1,849 ; value, $46,225.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 730; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 580 ; value, $8,700.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 4,000 ; value of apples, $8,700; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 100 ; value of pears, $75 ; value of Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $80.
Sheep, 485 ; value, $2,175 ; lbs. Wool produced, 1,370; value, $1,096. Horees, 207 ; value, $23,805 ; Oxen over four years old, 198 ; Steen under four years old, 180; value of oxen and 11teere, $28,286 ; Milch Cows, 475 ; Heifers, 200 ; value of cows and heifers, $24,000 ; gallons
of Milk  sold,  1,000 ; value,  $240 ;  lbs.  of Butter;  28,800 ; value,
$11,820 ; lbs. of Cheese, 7,050 ; value, $1,410.
612	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
RuTLA.No.	WORCESTER   Co.

Beef, dressed, lbs., 48,950 ; value, $4,895. Pork, dressed, lbs., 54,850 ; value, $9,324. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,000 ; value, $200. Veal, dressed, lbs., 3,450 ; value, $845.
Swine, 115 ; value, $1,500 ; value of Poultry soid,  $80 ;  value  of Eggs Fold, $500 ; lbs. of Honey, 720; value, $288 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of  Farm Produce, Maple Sugar, $1,400.



RUTLAND.

Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $98 ; bbls. ofeof\ soap m'd, 28;  value, $140 ; cap., $10; bands emp.,  1.
Neat's-Foot Oil m'd, value, $100 ; value of stock used, $30.
Blacksmith Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $490 ; value of work done,
$1,225 ; cap., $1,05'0 ; bands emp., 4.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 20 ; SJ.ioes, pairs  of  all  kinds m'd, 75 ; gross value of stock used, $150 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $350 ; cap., $50 ; m. emp., 6.
Blacking, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $15 ;
gross value of blacking m'd, $25 ; cap., $3 ; bands emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for market, 755,000 ;  value,
$8,305 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles and Staves prepared for market, 230,000 ; value,. $800 ; cap., $3,000 ; bands emp., 5.
Firewood and Bark prepw:ed for market, cords, 1,891; value, $5,673; cap., $2,836 ; hands emp., 8.
Farms, 198; acres, 21,464 ; value, including Buildings, $399,352 ; acres
improved, 12,972 ; persons emp., 221. Unimproved Land, acres, 5,786.
Woodland, acres, 2,706 ; value, $54,750.
Indian Corn, acres, 151; bush., 3,698; value, $5,547. Wheat, acres, 9 ; bush., 102 ; value, $255.
Rye, acres, 7!; bush., 128  ;  value, $192. Barley, acres, 55; bush., 954 ; value, $1,192.50. Buckwheat, 2 ; bush., 15 ; value, $18.75.
Oats, acres, 154 ; bush., 3,680 ; value, $2,760. Potatoes, acres, 195 ; bush., 18,150 ; value, $10,890. Cranberrieir, acres, 4 ; bush., 75 ; value, $300.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,255 ; tons ·of  English  hay,  1,829 ; value,
$45,725.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	613
WoRCESTER   Co.	SBREWSBURT,

Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 743 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 528 ; value, $5,280.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,168 ; value of apples,·$1,121 ; Pear-trees cultivated  for  their  fruit, 59 ; value of pears, $18 ; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market,  $75.
Sheep,  509 ; value,  $2,545 ;  Ibe.  of  Wool  produced,  2,261 ; value,
$1,243.55.
Horses, 187 ; value, $14,142 ; Oxen over four years old, 138 ; Stee1'8 under four years old, 137 ; value of oxen and steers, $17,875 ; Milch Cows, 514 ; Heifers, 169 ; value of cows and heifers, $2b,490 ; Neat Stock not embraced above, (41 head of Beef Stock, 10  Bulls,) value,
$1,823 ; gallons of Milk sold, 381; value, $76.20 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 31,128 ; value, $10,894.80 ; lbs. of Cheese, 6,529 ; value, $979.35.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 89,316 ; value, $7,145.28. Pork, dressed, lbs., 56,022 ; value, $8,403.15. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 3,360 ; value, $403.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 24,000 ; value, $2,640.
Swine, 93 ; value, $1,860 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,057 ; value of Eggs
sold, $539 ; lbs. of Honey, 75 ; value, $15.
Baskets, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of baskets m'd, $950 ;
-ralue of stock used, $150; cap., $75 ; m. emp., 2.




SHREWSBURY•.

Saddles, Harnesses, and  Trunks, establishments  for the  m. of, 1; har­
nesses m'd, 25 ; value, $875 ; value of stock used, $300 ; cap., $200 ;
·hands emp., 2.
Blacksmith  Shops, S ; value of stock used, $525 ; value of work done,
$1,350 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 3.
Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $20,000 ; number of Hides curried, 25,000 ; value of Leather curried, $400,000 ; cap.,
$90,000 ; hands emp., 50.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 9,360 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,700 ; gross value of stock used, $28,955 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $43,950 ; cap., $2,150;  m. emp., 24 ; f. emp., 4.
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 375,000 ; value,
,625.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 772 ; value, $1,910 ; cap., $2,5001 hands emp., 10.
614	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
SHREWSBURY.	WoacESTER  Co.

Farms,  159 ;  acres,  10,447 ;  value  o(  same,  including  Buildings,
$479,215; acres improved, 8,056 ; persons emp., 198.
Unimproved Land, acres, 161. Unimprovable Land, acres, 316. · Woodland, acres, 2,926 ; value, $100,001.
Indian Corn, acres, 883; bush., 13,531; value, $20,296.
Wheat, acres, 5; bush., 101; value, $202. Rye, acres, 23 ; bush., 313 ; value, $469. Barley, acres, 34 ; bush., 854 ; value, $854. Oats, acres, ·126 ; bmh., 3,633; value, $2,906.
Potatoes, acres, 911; bush., 10,683 ; value, $6,880.
Turnips cultivated  as a field crop, acres, 2 ; bush., 400 ;  value,  $100.
Onions, acres, t ; bush., 184 ; value, $460. Carrots, acres, l; bush., 381 ; value, $150. Cabbage, acres, 21; value, $850.
Winter Squash, acres, lt ; value, $288.
Garden Seeds, acres, 2 ; value, $250.
English   Mowing,   acres,   1,921 ;  tons   of   English  hay,  1,983; value,
$48,025.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 775 ; tons of wet meadow or swale
hay, 663;  value, $8,287.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 16,857; value, $4,164 ; Pear­ trees cultivated for their fruit, 842 ; value of the pears, $103; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 146; value, $76; value of Nuts  or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $100. .
Sheep, 83; value, $745 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 415; value, $166.
Horses, 248 ; value, $17,045 ; Oxen over four years old, 122; Steers under four years old, 41; value of oxen and steers, $12,495; Milch Cows, 642 ; Heifers, 198; value of cows and beife·rs, $33,080; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (118 Young Stock,) $1,770 ; gal­ lons of Milk sold, 65,725; value, $11,682 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 28,836 ; value, $9,450 ; lbs. of Cheese, 100 ; value, $25.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 158,050 ; value, $18,966. Pork, dressed, lbs., 50,020-; value, $9,003. Mutton,  dressed,  lbs.,  1,640;  value, $197.
Veal, dressed, lb,., 24,050 ; value,  $3,848.
Swine, 104 ; value, $1,510 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,198; value of Eggs sold, $1,278 ; lbs. of Houey sold, 785 ; value, $252 ; value of unenumerated articles of  Farm Produce, $75.	•
Shoe  Stiffenings, establishments  for  the  m. of, 2 ; value  of  stock used,
$1,000 ; value of work done, $6,000 ; m. emp., 13; f.emp., 8.
1865.)	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	615
WORCESTBR  Co.	SOUTHBOROUGH.


SOUTHBOROUGH.

Blacksmith Shope, 3 ; value of stock used, $2,500 ; value of work done,
$4,500 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 12,000 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 123,238; gross value of stock used, $92,136 ; value of boots  and  shoes m'd, $155,000 ; cap., $60,000 ; m. emp., 115 ; £   emp., 40.
Brick  Yards,  1; bricks  m'd,  200,000;  value,  $1,600;  cap., $1,000 ;
hands emp., 2.
Saw Mills,  2 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  150,000 ; value,
$3,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood  and Bark prepared  for market, cords, 242 ; value,   $1,260.
Farms, 171; seres, 9,581; value, including Buildings, $666,030 ; acres
of land improved, 7,509 ; persons emp., 1U.
UniJDproved Land, acres, 984. Unimprovable Land, acres, 48. WoodJand, acres, 780 ; value, $46,800.
Indian C-Orn, acres, 299t ; bush ., 10,969 ; value, $13,707.
Wheat, acres, 2 ; bush., 16 ; value, $25. Rye, acres, 9 ; bueb., 135 ; value, $202. Barley, acres, 15 ; bush., 319 ; value, $421.
Oata, acres, U7 ; bush., 3,645 ; value, $3,381.
Potatoes, aerea, 118; bush., 11,029 ; value, $6,855.
Ou-rots, acres, t ; buah., 222 ; value, $75.
Cabbage, acres, 2U ; value, $296.
W-mter  Squash, acres, 1 ; value, $252.
Beets, and other eseulent vegetables, acres, H ; bWlh., 300 ; value, $90.
English  Mowing;  aeres,  1,71";  tona  of  English  bay,  2,0(0f ;  value,
$59,860.
Wet Meadow and Swale mown, acres, 744!; tons of wet meadow or ewale  bay,  6661 ;  value,  $9,115.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 20,291 ; value of apples, $6,872 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their  fruit,  3,978;  value  of  pears,  $431 ;  all other trees cultivated for their fruit, Si5 ; value of fruit, $125 ;  value of Nuts or Berrie.s cultivated or gathered for market,   $175.
Sheep, 62 ; value, $707 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 147 ; value, $79.
Hones, 178; vatlue, $15,955; Oxen over four years old, 76 ; Steers under  four  years  old,  10; value of  oxen  an!steers, $7,742; Milch
Cows, 768 ; Heifers, 98 ; value of cows aod heifers, $42,838 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (Yearlings, Bulls, &e.,) $2,698 ; gallons of Milk sold, 149,590 ; value, $80,463 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 20,38.'i ; value, $9,052. ·
616	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
SOUTHBRIDGE.	WoacP:sTER  Co.

Beef,	ed, lbs., 158,427 ; value, $19,288. Pork, dressed, lbs., 63,212 ; value, $7,584. Veal, dressed, lbs., 24,580 ; value, $3,116.
Swine, 207 ; value, $2,536 ; value of Poultry sold, $875 ; value of Eggs
.  sold, $883; lbs. of Honey, 225 ; value, $67.




SOUTHBRIDGE.

Cotton Mills, 3 ; number of Spindles, 11;392 ; lbs. Cotton corummed, 406,916 ; gross value of all the stock used, $296,299 ; yards of Sheetings m'd, 1,437,880 ; yards  of Corset Jeans, 115,300 ; value,
$348,430;  cap., $104,060 ; m. emp., 123; f.  emp., 134.	·
Mousseline  de  Laine,  establishments  for  printing,  1; yaros printed,
6,778,975 ; value before  printing,  $1,2R5,775 ; value after  printing,
$1,853,692 ; cap., $175,000 ; m.emp., 184 ; f. emp., 19. .
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of Woollen Machinery, 13 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 280,000 ; value of stock used, $857,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 848,750 ; value, $418,000; number of Shawls m'd, 2,218 ; value, $18,000; cap., $100,000 ; m. emp., 121; f. emp., 67.
Worsted Goods or goods of which worsted is a component part, estab­ lishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,689,000 ; yards of Mousseline    de    Laine    m'd,   8,042,224 ;   valne,   $1,898,000 ; cap.,
$325,00() ; m. emp., 245 ; £ emp., 472.
Cutlery, establishments  for the m, of,  1 ; value  of stock  used, $200;
value of Shoe Knives m'd, $1,200 ; cap., $800; bands emp., 8.
Card Paper, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $350; tons of Straw Board m'd, 14; value, $1,800; cap., $1,000 ; m. emp., 2. Printing  and  Newspaper   Establishments,   1;  value  of   stock  used,
$1,500; newspapers printed, (Southbridge Journal,) 1; issued weekly ; value, $1,500 ; cap., $2,500 ; value of all other printing done, $1,500 ;
m. emp., 4.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used,
$725 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 8,000 ; value, $2,235 ;
cap., $1,865 ; m. emp., 2.
Harnesses, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; harnesses  m'd, 45 ; value,
$1,300 ; value  of stock used,  $785;  cap., $800;  hands  emp., 4.
Railroad Cars, Coaches, Chaises, Wagons, Sleighs and other vt:hicles, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of Yehicles m'd, $800 ; value of stock used, $300;  cap., $400 ; hands emp.,  1.




a	Digitized by Google
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF M.ASSACHUSETI'S.	617
WORCESTER  Co.	SOUTHBRIDGE.

Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $9,200; value of clothing m'd, $14,400 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 4 ; f. emp., 10. Tallow Candles, establishments for the m.·of, 1; lbs. of tallow candles made, 2,255; value, $451 ; Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value  of stock used,  $12,000 ;  bbls.  of soft  soap  m'd,  84 ; value,
$336 ; lbs. of hard soap, 10,679 ; value, $1,068 ; value of all other soaps m'd, $1,600 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Blacksmith  Shops, 3; value of stock used, $670 ; value of worli done,
$2,645 ; cap., $850 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 3 ;,value of stock used, $1,254 ; value of tin ware m'd, $2,300 ; cap., $3,500 ; hands emp., 4.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 500 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 600 ; value of stock used, $2,200 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $4,500 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 8.	·
Pumps, establishments for the m. of, I ; value of stock used, $80 ; value of pumps m'd, $600 ; cap., $150 ; hands emp., 1.
Coffins of all  kinds, manufactories  of, 1; value  of stock  used,  $1,000 ;
coffins made, 200 ; value, $2,800 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 2. Planing Mills and establishments for the in, of Sashes, Doors and Blinds,
1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of sashes,. doors and blinds m'd, $8,000 ; value of all other work done, $8,000 ; cap., $4,000 ;. hands emp.,·3,
Bo:i:es, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $6,000 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $10,000; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Gas, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $5,071 ; value of gss m'd, $5,501; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved, 400 ; value, $600 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands einp., 1.
Bakeries, 1; value of stock, $12,500 ; value of Bread m'd, $16,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; hands emp., 5.
Saw Mills, 5 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for market,  562,000 ; value,
$8,700 ; Shingles, 85,000 ; value, $300 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4. Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,447 ; viuue, $12,854. Farms,  117 ; acres, 12,791 ; value, including Buildings, $390,680 ;
acres improved, 2,724 ; persons emp., 152. Unimproved  Land, acres, 5,690.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 766. Woodland,  acres, 8,151;  value, $84,880.
Indian Com, acres, 146 ; bush., 5,801 ; value, $8,670. Wheat, acres, 15 ; bush., 175 ; value, $855.
Rye, acres, 18 ; bush., 149 ; value, $221.
78
618	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
SOUTHBRIDGE.	WORCESTER  Co.

Barley, acres, 50 ; btJsh., 1,095 ; value, $1,665. Buckwheat, acres, 14; bush., 68 ; value,	5. Oats, acres, 72 ; bush., 1,744 ; value, $1,776. Herdsgra.ss Seed, acres, 1; bush., 11; value, $12. Clover Seed, acres, 1; bush., 50 ; value, $13.
Potatoes, acres, 101 ; bush., 9,245 ; value, $5,551. Tobacco, lbs., 60 ; value, $57.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,597 ;  tons  of   English   hay,   1,729 ;  value,
$34,960.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 698; ns of wet meadow or swale hay, 552 ; value, $5,436.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,086 ; value of apples, $2,895 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 932 ; value of pears, $270 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 37 ; value of fruit, $7.
Merino Sheep, 15 ; all other kinds of sheep, 350 ; value of all sheep,
$2,272 ; lbs. of Merino Wool produced, 60 ; value, $36 ; lbs. of all other wool pn¥luced, 1,805 ; value, $877.
Horses, 190 ; value, $18,815 ; Oxen over four years old, 164; Steers under four years old, 113; value of oxen and steers, $17,915; Milch Cows, 472 ; Heifers, 175 ; value of cows and heifers, $22,882 ; Neat Stock not embraced above, (69 Young,) value, $1,381; gallons of Milk sold, 18,752 ; value, $4,556 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 6,783 ; value,
$3,618; lbs. of Cheese, 6,510 ; value, $1,280. lleef, dressed, lbs., 113,763; value, $26,411.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 21,948 ; value, $3,960. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,730 ; value, $429. Veal, dressed, lbs., 9,519 ; value, $1,114.
Swine, 149 ; value, $3,423; value of Poultry sold, $598 ; value  of Eggs sold, $462 ; lbs. of Honey, 390; value, $108 ; value of unenu­ merated  articles  of  Farm  Produce,  {garden  and   miscellaneous,)
$948.
Gold Spectacles m'd, pairs, 1,074 ; Silver Spectacles m'd, pairs, 4,567 ; Steel Spectacles m'd, pairs, 12,636 ; value, $20,100 ; value of stock,
$11,850 ; cap., $6,000; hands emp., 11.
Shuttles m'.d, 32,364 ; value, $37,686; cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 20. Teeth, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock, $750 ; value m'd,
$1,500 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., 1.
Wheel Spokes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock, $800 ; value m'd, $800 ; cap., $600 ; hands emp., 2.
Bone  Grinding  and  Phosphate Mills, 1; value of  stock, $600; value,
$900; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., I.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	619
woacEsTER c'o.	SPENCER.


SPENCER.

Woollen Mills, ·8 ; sets Woollen Machinery, 4 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 110,000 ; value of all the stock used, $15b,ooo ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 250,000 ; value, $215,000 ; yards of Satinet ·m'd, 172,000 ; value, $92,000 ; cap., $58,000 ; m. emp., 38 ; f. emp., 26.
Wire Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $106,000 ; tons of wire m'd, 382 ; value, $182,700 ; cap., $60,000 ; bands emp., 59.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, I ; value of stock used, $2,692; Yalue of clothing m'd, $3,590 ; cap., $1,200 ; m. emp., 1 ; £ emp., 3. Blacksmith Shope, 5 ; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of work done,
$3,300 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Tin Ware Manufactories, I ; value of stock used, $300 ; value of tin ware m'd, $450 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $17,000; Hides curried, 3,200 ; value of Leather curried, $19,000 ; cap., $4,500 ; bands emp., 5.	·
Boots of all kinds m'd, 324,943; value of stock used, $575,000 ; value of boots  m'd, $835,800;  cap.,  $276,000 ; m. emp., 589 ; £ emp., 41.
Ox Muzzles m'd, 1,700; value, $675 ; cap., $100; m. emp.,  ].
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactorics of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; coffins made, 45 ; value, $200 ; cap., $100 ; bands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $11,250 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $20,000 ; cap.• $3,500 ; m. emp., 8. Saw Mills, 5; feet of Lumber prepared  for market,  1,150,000;  value,
$17,900 ; Shingles prepared  for market, 200,000; value, $GOO ;  cap.,
$4,000 ; hands emp., 12.
1/'irewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,000 ; nlue, $12,000 ; cap., $3,000; hands emp., 5.
Farms, 164 ; acres, 15,844 ; value, including Buildings, $474,825 ; acres of land improved, 10,071 ; persons emp., 246.
Unimproved Land, acres, 3,201. Unimprovable Land, acres, 280. Woodland, acres, 2,269 ; value, $140,100.
Indian Corn, acres, 219 ; bush., 5,482 ; value, $8,148. Wheat, acres, 8; bush., 56 ; value, $112.
Rye, acres, 3; bush., 24 ; value, $48. Barley, acres, 22 ; bush., 880 ; value, $570.
Buckwheat, acres, 7 ; bush., 75;  value, $112.
Oats, acres, 171 ; bush., 8,854 ; value, $3,854.
620	STATISTICS  OF THE	(186:i.
STERLING.	WoncESTER Co.

Potatoes, acres, 189 ; bush., 17,485 ; value, $12,204.50.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 2 ; bush ., 500 ; value; $170. Cabbage, acres, 2 ; value, $200.
Tobacco, acres, 2 ; lbs., 1,800 ; value, $225.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,240 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,892 ; value,
$34,056.
Wet Meadow'or Swale mown, acres, 805 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 675 ; value, $6,750.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 6,275 ; value of apples, $3,019 ; Pear-trees ·cultivated for their  fruit,  309 ;  value  of  pears, $110 ; all other trees cultivated for their fmit, 331 ; value of fruit, $120. Sheep,  348 ; value,  $2,784 ;  lbs.  of  Wool  produce<l,  1,740 ; value,
$1,131.
Horses, 329 ; value, $26,320 ; Oxen over four years old, 263;  Steers under four years old, 215 ; value of oxen and steers, $24,584 ; Milch Cows, 493 ; Heifers, 320 ; value of cows and heifer, $26,485 ; num­ ber of Neat Stock not embraced above, 68 ; gallons of  Milk  sold, 6,918; value, $1,549 ; lbs.  of  Butter  sol<l,  15,230 ;  vnlue,  $6,173; lbs. of   Cheese,  14,050 ; value, $2,461.
Beef, <lresse<l, lbs., 205,200; value, $21,572. Pork, dressed, lbs., 25,250; value, $4,292. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 31,150 ; value, $4,672. Veal, dressed, lbs., 32,200 ; value,  $3,864.
Swine, 184 ; value, $2,404 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,406 ; value of Eggs sold, $200 ; lbs. of Honey, 400 ; value,.$160 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce, $75.


STERLING.

Shoddy, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,800 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 53,000 ; value, $10,600 ; cap., $6 500 ; m. emp., 5. Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $650 ; value of work done,
$2,100 ; cap., $1,750 ; hands emp., 3.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 4 ; value of stock used, $10,000 ; chairs and  settees  made,  45,000 ; value,  $20,300 ; cap.,  $10,400 ;
m. emp., 22.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock use<l, $10,000 ; Hides tanned, 5,000 ; Hides tanned and curried, 5,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $20,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands  emp., 13.
1865.]	IN'DUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	621
WORCESTER  Co.	STERLING.

Stone and EarthenWare, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value  of stone  and earthen  ware m'd,  $5,000 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; hands emp:, 6.
Saw Mills, 8 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,137,000 ; valu:e,
$16,000 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 410,000 ; value, $1,025 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp.,   10.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,525 ; value, $4,062.50 ; cap., $1,700 ; hands emp., 18.
Fanns, 210 ; acres, 18,616 ; value, including Buildings, $732,024 ; acres of land improved, 12,502 ; persons emp., 280.
Unimproved Land, acres, 1,783. Unimprovable Land, acres, 187. Woodland, acres, 4,144 ; value, $110,992.
Indian Corn, acres, 331; bush., 12,040 ; value, $18,060. Wheat, acres, 11; bush., 167 ; value, $334.
Rye, acres, 27 ; bush., 650 ; value, $975. Barley, acres, 102 ; bush., 1,680 ; value, $1,680.
Buckwheat, acres, 10 ; bush., 150 ; value, $112.50. Oats, acres, 87 ; bush., 2,333 ; value, $1,749.75.
Potatoes, acres, 149 ; bush., 16,784 ; value, $8,392.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 8!; bush., 2,230 ; value, $446.
Carrots, acres, It ; bush., 450 ; value, $150. Cabbage, acres, 1  ; value, $500.
Hops, acres, 2 ; lbs., 750 ; value, $300. Tobacco, acres, 2 ; lbs., 3,706 ; value, $741.20.
English  Mowing,· acres, 3,061;  tons  of  English  hay,  3,061 ; value,
$76,525.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 457 ; tons of ·wet meadow or swale hay, 457; value, $5,484.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 16,252 ; value of apples, $6,278 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 450 ; value, $350 ;  all  other trees cultivated for their fruit, 832 ; value, '$400 ; Yalue of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $224.
Sheep, 178; value, $1,780 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 566 ; value,$311.30. Horses, 304 ; value, $22,800 ; Oxen over four years old, 190 ; Steers under four years old, 81 ; value of oxen and steers, $18,770 ; Milch Cows, 841 ; Heifers, 92 ; value of cows and heifers, $49,015 ; value
of Neat Stock not embraced above, (130,) $2,663; gallons  of  Milk BOid, 83,812 ; value, $13,409.92;  lbs. of  Butter  sold, 40,150 ;  Yalue,
$14,052.50.	•
Beef, dressed,  lbs.,  184,758;   value, $18,475.80.
622	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
STURBRIDOE.	WORCESTER  Co.

Pork. dressed, lbs., 83,348 ; value, $12,502.20. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,650 ; value, $300.
Veal, dreBBed, lbs., 34,200 ; value, $3,420.
Swine, 186 ; value, $3,333 ; value of Poultry sold, $7«; value of Eggs
sold, $862 ; lbs. of Honey, 211 ; value, $52.75 ; lbs. of Beeswax, 30; value, $15.
Machine Needles and Children's Wagons, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value, $8,000 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; cap., $4,500; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 1.


STURBRIDGE.

Cotton Mills, 2 ; Cotton Spindles, 7,900 ; lbe. of Cotton consumed, 187,762 ; gross value of stock used, $189,653.73;  yards  of  Print  Cloths m'd, 1,140,389 ; groBB value of cloth m'd, $274,208.68 ; m. emp., 40 ;  f. emp., 58.
Woollen Mills, 1 ; sets o(Woollen Machinery, 3; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 30,000 ; gross value of stock used, $45,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd,  90,000 ; value,  $50,000 ; cap.,  $10,000 ; m. emp., 20 ;
·f. emp., 11.
Augers,  Bits  and  Gimlets,  manufactorieR  of,  1; value  of  stock  used,
$11,000 ; number of the several kinds m'd, 292,000 ; value, $45,000 ; hands emp., 35.
Mechanics'   Tools  m'd  and  not   elsewhere   enumerated,  gross  value,
$2,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 3.
Wagons, Sleighs and other vehicles, establishments for the m. of, l ; number m'd, (12 wagons, 6 gigs, 20 sleighs,) 38; value, $8,369 ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of articles from, 1; value of stQck used,  $889 ; Gmvestones  m'd, 85 ;  value,
$2,182 ; cap., $250 ; bands emp., 2.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of "Stock used, $301.40; bbls. of son soap m'd, 108 ; value, $460 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1. Blacksmith  Shops, 3; value of stock used, $400; value of work  done,
$1,400 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 3.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $3,650; Hides tanned, 3,000 ; Hides tanned and currted, 2,000; value of Leather tanned and curried, $13,400 ; cap., $9,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 30,000 ; value of stock used, $22,500 ; value of shoes m'd, $30,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 50 ; f. ernp., 20.
186:i.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	623
WORCESTER   Co.	STURBRIDGE.

Pail and Tub Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; number m'd, 4,800 ; value, $8,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; bands emp., 10.
Saw  Mills, 8; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  719,000; value,
$10,500 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 186,000; value, $786.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 4,125 ; value, $17,259.
Lead Mines, 1; value of lead mined, $250 ; bands emp., 2.
Farms,  158 ;  acres,  20,038 ;  value,  including  Buildings,  $407,400 ;
acres improved,  10,700;  persons  emp., 166.
Unimproved Land, acres, 5,026. Unimprovable Land, acres, 2,029. Woodland, acres, 2,283 ; value, $74,295.
Indian C.orn, acres,  240 ;  bush., 6,846;  value, $10,269.
Wheat, acres, 4\ ; bush., 49 ; value, $98. Rye, acres, 25t ; bush., 262 ; value, $5i5. Barley, acres, 89t ; bush., 859 ; value, $1,200.
Buckwheat, acres, 16·; bush., 171; value, $130. Oats, acres, 178 ; bush., 8,841 ; value, $3,072. Potatoes, acres, 157 ; bush., 13,803; value, $6,902.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, bush., 680 ; value, $210.
Cabbage, value,  $12.
Tobacoo, acres, ll; lbs., 1,560; value, $375.
English   Mowing,   acres,  2,242 ; tone   of   English   hay,  2,019 ; value,
$40,380.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 1,101; tone of wet meadow or swalc hay, 936; value, $9,360.
.Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,252 ; value of apples, $2,083; Pear-trees cultivated for their &uit, 59 ; value of pears, $35 ; value of Peaches, $164 ; value of Chestnuts cultivated or gathered for market, $12.
Sheep,  828 ; value,  $4,363;  lbs.  of  Wool  produced,  2,422 ; value,
$1,261.43.
Horses, 284 ; value, $19,747 ; Oxen over four years old, 182 ; Steers under four years old, 172 ; value of oxen and steers, $20,282 ; Milch C.owa, 588; Heifers, 259 ; value of cows and heifers, $80,878 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (105 Yearlings and Bulls,) $2,181; gallons of :Milk sold, 8,832 ; value, $679.28; lbs. of Butter aold, 19,287 ; value, $8,509 ; lbs. of Cheese, 2,179 ; value, $420.
Bee dressed, lbs., 81,200 ; value, $8,553. Pork, dressed, lbs., 67,jg6 ; value, $10,742. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 714 ; value, $97.40.	•
624	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
SUTTON,	WORCESTER  Co.

Veal, dressed, lbs., 6,962 ; value, $983.
Swine, 155 ; value, $3,246 ; value of Poultry sold, $662; value of Eggs sold, $573.50 ; lbs. of Honey, 818; value, $112.66 ; lbe. of Beeswax, 20! ; value, $9.25 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Prodnce, (Watermelons,) $20.



SUTTON.
Cotton )fills, 4 ; Cotton Spindles, 20,680 ; lbs. Cotton consumed, 400,000 ; value of stock usM, $300,000 ; yards of  Print  Cloths m'd, 2,500,000; value, $500,000 ; lbs. of Cotton  Batting  m'd, 1,000 ; value, $7,000 ; cap., $262,000 ; m. emp., 141; f. emp., 208.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of Woollen Machinery, 1; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 144,000 ; gross value of stock ued, $4,752 ; yards of Kentucky Jeans m'd, 72,000 ; value, $26,640 ; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 7 ; £ emp., 6.	·
_Shoddy, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $14,000 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 300,000 ; value, $60,000 ; cap., $5,000; m. emp., 5;  f. emp., 7.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 100 ; value, $500 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 1.
Master Builders, 1 ; Buildings erected, 5 ; value, $7,500 ; value of materials used, $4,500 ; hands emp., 10.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of work done,
"$1,800 ; cap., $900 ; hands emp., 3.
Boots,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,  5,000 ;  Shoes,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,
58,000 ;  gross  value  of  stock  used   in  the  m..  of boots  and shoes,
$68,000 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $95,500 ; cap., $20,000 ; m. emp., 54 ; f. emp., 28.
Casks, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; casks m'd, 100 ; value, $200 ; cap., $100;  hands emp.,  1.
Coffins  and  Burial  Cases of  all  kinds, establishments  for the  m. of, 1;
value  of  stock  used,  $100 ;  coffins  made,  25 ;  value,   $200 ; cap.,
$100 ; hands emp., 1,
Gas, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $800 ; value of gas m'd, $1,200 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 2 ; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $1800 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 3.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	625
WoneESTER   Co.	SUTTON,

Saw Mills, 8 ; feet  of  Lumber  prepared  for market,  699,500 ; value,
$13,990 ; Shingles prepared for market, 140,000 ; value, $315 ; value of Box Boards, $100 ; cap., $8,100 ; hands emp., 27.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 8,810 ; value, $15,240 ;
cap., $4,500 ; hands emp., 38.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 28,500 ; value, $2,350 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Farms, 203; acres, 18,107 ;, value, including Buildings, $581,240 ; acres improved, 4,873 ; persons emp., 314.
Unimproved Land, acres, 7,864. Unimprovable Land, acres, 396. Woo<lland, acres, 4,974 ; value, $106,899.
Indian Corn, acres, 347 ; bush., 12,801; value, $18,451.50.
Wheat, acres, 6!; bush., 180 ; value, S260. Rye, acres, 62 ; bush., 1,240 ; value, $1,860. Barley, acres, 24 ; bush., 720 ; value, $1,080. Buckwheat, acres, 1; bush., 20 ; value, $30. Oats, acres, 336 ; bush., 11,820 ; value, $8,865.
Potatoes, acres, 148 ; bush., 14,993 ; value, $11,244.75.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 16 ; bush., 1,975 ; value, $790.
Onions, acres, 21; bush., 600 ; value, $900. Carrots, acres, 15 ; bush., 2,960 ; value, $1,184. Cabbage, acres, 6 ; value, $1,200.
Winter Squash, acres, 1 ; value, $200.
Market  Gardening, acres, 9 ; value of products,   $980.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, acres, 3i; bush., 860 ; value, $270.
Tobacco, acres, i ; lbs., 700 1  value, $140.
Cranberries, acres, 8; bush., 143 ; value, $572.
English   Mowing,   acres,  3,576;   tons   of   English   hay,  3,792; value,
$94,800.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 579 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 517 ; value, $6,204.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 27,-457 ; value of apples, $9,802 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 650 ; value of pears, $475; all  other trees cultivated  for their  fruit, 230 ; value of fruit, $376 ; value of  Nuta  or Berries  cultivated or gathered  for market,  $1,100.
Sheep,  231;  value,  $1,768 ;  lbs.  of  Wool  produced,   1,105; value,
$.552.50.
Horses, 331; value, $25,145; Oxen over four years old, 186 ; Steers under four years old, 183; value of oxen and steers, $19,200,; Milch Cows, 619 ; Heifers, 191 ; value of .cows and heifers, $29,048; value of Neat  Stock not embraced  above, (12 Bulls,)  $520 ; gallons of Milk
79
626	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
TEMPLETON.	WORCESTER  Co.

sold,  4,856;   value,   $971.20 ;  lbs.  of   Butter   sold,  26,740; value,
$9,359 ; lbs. of Cheese, 15,632 ; value, $2,344.80.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 17,000 ; value, $1,700.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 90,600 ; value, $13,590.
Swine, 378 ; value, $3,950 ; value of Poultry sold, $1,308 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,341 ; lbs. of Honey, 1,900 ; value, $570 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 57 ; value, $22.80.
Flocks, establishments for the m. of, 1; vale of stock used, $12,000 ;
cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 7.
White Beans, bush., 36 ; value, $144.
Cider, bbls. m'd, 303 ; value,  $909.
Shuttles, establishments  for  the  m. of, 3 ; shuttles m'd, 5,000 ; vulue,
$19,600 ; value of stock used, $11,900 ; cap., $11,500 ; m. emp., 16.



TEMPLETON.
Woollcn Mills, 2 ; sets of Woollen Machinery, 9 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 186,000 ; gross value of stock consumed, $204,000 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 250,000 ; value, $450,000; yards of Satinet m'd, 42,000 ; value, $14,000 ; cap., $74,000 ; m. emp., 84 ; f. emp., 80.
Shoddy, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,500 ; lbs. of shoddy m'd, 81,500 ; value, $2,200 ; cap., $800; m. emp., 1. Hollow Ware and  Castings other than pig iron, flll'll8ces for the m. of,
1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; tons of hllow ware and other castings m'd, 180 ; value $17,200; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 12.
Dagucrreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; value of stock  used,
$450 ; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 4,000 ; value, $1,000 ;
cap., $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Harnesses,  establishments   for  the  m.  of,  1;  number  m'd,  27 ; ,·alue,
$825 ; value of stock used, $700 ; cap., $325 ; hands emp., 2.
·wagons, establishments for the  m. o 2 ; wagons  m'd, 47 ;  value,
$3,910; value of stock med, $2,000 ; cap., $950 ; hands cmp., 4. Clothing, establishments for m.  of, 1; value  of  stock  used,  $1,200 ;
value of clothing m'd, $2,000 ; cap., $800 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Blacksmith  Shops, 4 ;  value of stock used,  $1,300 ; ,·alue of work  done,
$4,300; cap., $1,925 ; bands emp., 7.
Chairs and  Settees, manufnctories  of, 7 ; value of  stock  used, $91,016 ;
chairs and settees made, 169,643; ¥alue,  $153,673 ; cap., $68,200 ;
m. emp., Hi8;  f. emp., 409.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS .	627
WoRc.11:sn:a Co.	TEHPLETON.

Cabinet Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $4,500 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $16,000 ; cap., $6,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $25,000 ; value of tin ware m'd, $36,000 ; cap., $62,000; hands  emp., 60.	·
Flouring	lills, 3;  bush.  of  Grain  ground,  10,000;  value, $18,600 ; cap., $.,100 ; hands emp., 3.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $7,500 ; Hides tanned and curried, 1,150; value of Leather tanned and eurtj.cd,
$13,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd,  3,525;  Shoes,  pairs  of  all kinds  m'd, 1,800 ; value  of  stock  used  in  the  manufacture  of  boota  and  shoes,
$9,142 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $18,700 ; cap., $2,760; m. emp., 10 ; £ emp., 1.
Brick Yards, 1; ·bricks m'd, 70,000 ; value, $560; cap., $850 ; hands emp., 1.
Boxes, establishmenta for the m. of, l.; value of  stock  used,  $860 ;  value of Wooden  Boxes made,  $900 ; cap., $500;  m. emp., 1.
Saw Mills, 11 ; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 1,265,000 ; value,
$16,135 ; Laths, Clapboards, Shingles, and Staves prepared for mar­ ket, 73,000 ; value, $284 ; cap., $9,700; hands emp., 11.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,355 ; value, $11,992.
Farms, 147 ; acres, 15,323 ; value, including Buildings, $583,477 ; acres improved, 10,570 ; persons emp., 188.
Unimproved Land, acres, 8,341. Unimprovable Land, acres, 116. Woodland, acres, 3,704 ; value, $152,217.
Indian Com, acres, 106 ; bush., 4,549 ;  value,  $6,823.
Wheat, acres, 28 ; bush., 349 ; value, $698. Ryil, acres, 4 ; bush., 40 ; value, $80.
Barley, acres, 59 ; bush., 1,268; value, $1-,902. Buckwheat, acres, 4 ; bush., 41 ; value, $62. Oats, acres, 51 ; bush., 1,192 ; value, $1,043.
Potatoe8, acres, 146 ; bush., 20,612 ; value, $13,898.
Turnips, cultivated with other crops, bush., 1,568 ; value, $522. Cv. rots, acres,	; bush., 533 ; value, $200.
Cabbage, acres, t ; value, $68.
Beets and other esculent vegetable. , acres,!; bush., 56 ; value, $21. English  Mowing,  acres, 2,283 ; tons of  English hay, 1,686 ; value,
$49,080 ; value of Grass or Clover Seed, (5 bush. Timothy,) $30.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 540 ; tons wet meadow or swale hay, 421 ; value, $6,315.
628	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
 	•	
UPTON.	WORCESTER  Co.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,787 ; value of apples, $4,282 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,889 ; \"alue of pears, $104 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 872 ; value of fruit, $76 ; value of Nuts or ·Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $75.
Sheep, 168 ; value, $1,262 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 742 ; value, $482.
Horses, 818 ; value, $81,906 ; Oxen over four years old, 108 ; Steers under four years old, 92 ; value of oxen and steers, $I2,850 ; Milch
<;:owe, 489 ; Heifers, 188 ; value of cows and heifers, $24,515 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (80 Colts, 8 Bulle,) $2,627 ; gallons of Milk sold, 6,592 ; value, $1,648; lbs. of Butter sold,  10,778; value, $4,848; lbs. of Cheese, 2,840 ; value, $568.
Beef, dressed, _lbs., 145,891; value, $18,286. Pork, dressed, Ibs.,·77,695 ; value, $13,208. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,900 ; value, $622.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 15,052 ; value, $1,882.
Swine, 98; value, $1,891;  value  of  Poultry  sold,  $484; value  of Eggs sold, $647 ; lbe. of Honey, 471 ; value, $167 ; value of unenu­ merated articles of Farm Produce,  $267.
Rustic  Shades, establishments  for  the  m. of, 1; value  of stock used,
$500 ; number m'd, 2,000 ; value, $1,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 4 ;
£ emp., 5.
Toys, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $2,200 ; value m'd, $11,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 11.
Fanning Mills, 1; value of stock used, $850 ; number m'd, 100 ; value,
$1,000; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1.
Sewing Machine Hemmers, establishments for the  m.·of, 1; value of stock used, $100; number m'd, 3,000 ; value, $760; cap., $100 ; m. emp., 1.
Chair Frames and Chair Backs, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; chair frames m'd, 125,000 ; value, $12,600 ; chair back6 m'd, 50,000 ; value, $4,000;  cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 25.


UPTON.

Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 1; num­ ber of each m'd, 40; value,  $1,600;  value  of  stock  used,  $850 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $180; bble. of soft soap m'd, 150 ; value, $450 ; hands emp., 1.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	629
WoacEsTER Co.	UPTON,

Blacksmith Shops, 3; value of stock used, $1,000 ; value  of work done, $2,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 4.
Boots,  pairs  of  all  kinds  m'd,  97,044 ;  gross  value  of  stock used,
$165,089.61; value of boots m'd, $238,939.87 ; cap., $150,000 ; m. emp., 143; f. emp., 13.
Straw Bonnets and Hata, establishments for the m. of, 1; value  of stock used, $153,626 ; straw bonnets m'd, 118,174 ; value, $76,831 ; straw hats m'd, 236,348 ; value, $154,626 ; value of  Straw  Braid m'd and not made into bonnets or hats, $12,000 ; cap., $150,000 ; m. emp., 100; £ emp., 1,200.
Planing Mills and establishments for the m. of Sashes,  Doors, and Blinds, 1; value of stock used, $7,500 ; value of 1,8,Shes, doors, and blinds m'd, $12,000 ; cap., $7,000 ;  hands emp.,  9.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $8,000 ; cap., $5,000; m. emp., 5.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved for market, 150 ; value, $450 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1. Saw Mills, 7 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 1,540,000 ; value,
$23,100 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,200 ; value, $4,800. Farms, 149 ; acres, 9,212 ; value of same, including Buildings, $285,555 ;
acres of land improved, 6,000; persons emp., 306. Unimproved  Land, acres, 2,800.
Unimprovable Land, acres, 900. Woodland, acres, 2,314 ; value, $115,700.
Indian Corn, acres, 166 ; bush., 4,980 ; value, $4,980. Rye, acres, 31; bush., 310 ; value, $310.
Oata, acres, 104; bush., 2,600 ; value, $1,950. Potatoes, acres, 116 ; bush., 11,600; value, $6,960. Cranberries, acres, 40 ; bush., 800 ; value, $1,600.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,200 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,058 ; value,
$19,044.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 260; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 260 ; value, $2,340.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,382 ; value of apples, $6,784. Sheep, 48 ; value, $414 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 288 ; value, $172.80. Horses, 219 ; value, $18,562 ; Oxen over four years old, 88; value,
$7,185 ; l\Iilch  Cows, 388; Heifers, 99 ; value of cows and heifers,
$21,959 ; gallons of  l\lilk sold, 9,000 ; value, $1,440 ; lbs. of Butter
sold, 8,725 ; value, $2,617.50.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 82,500 ;  value, $8,250.
630	STATISTICS  OF THE	(1865.
UXBRIDGE.	WoacEsTER Co.

Pork, dressed, lbs., 42,900 ; value, $5,148. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 1,000; value, $166.66. Veal, dressed, lbs., 21,000 ; value, $2,100.
Swine, 143 ; value, $2,686 ; value of Poultry sold, $300 ; value of Eggs sold, $771.50.


UXBRIDGE.
Cotton l\Iills, 2; Cotton Spindles, 10,720 ; lbs. of Cotton consumed, 109,500 ; gross value of stock used, $119,500; yards of Cotton Cloth m'd, 214,500 ; value, $96,200 ; yards of Satinet Warp m'd, 334,000 ; value,  $40,000;  cap., $125,000 ; m. emp., 45;  f. emp., 50.
Woollen Mills, 6 ; sets of Woollen Machinery, 33!; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 393,I 00; gross value of stock used, $924,424 ; yards of Cassimere m'd, 670,452 ; value, $1,280,055; yards of Satinet m'd, 455,855 ; value, $187,000 ; yards of Kentucky Jeans, 59,180 ; value,
$23,652 ; cap., $380,000;  m. emp., 278;  f. emp., 180.
Shoddy, establishments for the m. of, 2; value of stock used, $15,073 ; lbs. of Shoddy m'd, 57,019 ; value, $17,217 ; cap., $9,000 ; m. cmp., 6 ; f. emp., 2.
Saddles and Harnesses, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; number of each
m'd, 10;  value of  the same, $450 ; value  of stock  used, $300 ; cap.,
$200; hands emp., 1.
Carriages and Wagons, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; carriages m'd, 9 ; wagons  m'd, 3; value, $1,325; value  of stock  used, $800 ; cap.,
$1,500; hands emp., 4.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, I ; value of stock used, $2,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $3,500; cap., $1,500 ;  m. emp., 1; f. cmp., 3.  Soap, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 235; value,
$940.
Buildings erected, 8 ; value, $4,500.
Blacksmith Shops, 3 ; value of stock used, $463 ; value of work done,
$1,548; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 3.
Cabinet Manufacto1·ies, I ; value of stock used, $300; value  of  chairs and cabinet  ware  m'd, $700 ;  cap., $500 ; hands  emp., 1.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $260; value of tin ware, $530 ; hands cmp., -
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $1,200 ;
Hides tanned, 200 ; Hides tanned and curried, 200 ; value of Leather tanned  and curried, $2,500 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., I i•
1865.J	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	681
Woac1:sTER Co.	UXBRIDGE.

Boxes, value of stock used in m. of, $2,600 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $3,884.
Gas, establlihments for the m. of, 1; value  of stock  used, $528 ; value
of gas m'd, $800 ; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 1.
Breweries, 1; value of stock used, $178 ; bbls. of Beer m'd, 48 ; value,
$480 ; cap., $75 ; hands emp., ·
Stone and Marble Quarries, 2 ; value of Building Stone quied and prepared for market, $6,400 ; cap , Sl ,900 ; bands emp., 9.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for  market, 100,490 ; value,
$18,745; Shingles, 104,000 ; value, $312 ; cap., $3,300 ; hands emp , 4!.
Firewood  and Bark  prepared  for market,  cords, 2,141;  value, $11,482.
Charcoal m'd, bush., 300 ; value, $60.
Farms, 165 ; acres, 11,917 ; value, including Buildings, $387,510 ; tlcree improved, 9,070 ; persons emp., 204.
Unimprovable  Land, acres, 830.
Woodland, acres, 5,199 ; value, $110,249.
Indian Com, acres, 355 ; bush., 10,071; value, $18,929. Wheat, acres, 5};  bush., 55 ; value, $188.
Rye, acres, 52 ; bush., 555 ; value, $1,110. Barley, acres, 20 ; bush., 383 ; value, $574. Buckwheat, acres, 5 ; bush., 107 ; value, $140. 'Oats, acres, 198 ; bush., 4,233 ; value, $4,288.
Potatoes, acres, 198 ; bush., 17,193; l"alue, $12,343. Turnips cultivated as a field crop, bush., 682 ; value, $839. Onions, acres, 11 ; bush., 295 ; value, $590.
Carrots, bush., 103; value, $41. Cabbage, value, $288.
Beets and other esculent vegetables, bush., 16 ; value, $14. Cranberries, bush., 35 ; value, $108.	·
English  Mowing, acres, 2,542 ;  tons  of  Eng1ish  hay,  1,708 ; value,
$42,575.	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 783 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 472 ; value, $4,720.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 14,023; value of apples, $8,495 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 550 ; value of  pears,  $320 ; value of Nuts or Berries  cultivated  or gathered for market, $100.
Sheep, 108 ; value, $475; lbs. of Wool produced, 475 ; vnlue, $400.
Horses, 231; value, $20,140 ; Oxen over four years old, 218 ; Steers under four years old, 23; value of oxen and eteers, $16,730 ; Milch Cows,  521;  Heifers,  21;   value  of   cows  and   heifers,  $21,635 ;
632	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
WARREN.	WORCESTER  Co.

value   of   Neat   Stock   not   embraced    above,   (97   Young Stock,)
$2,055; gallons of Milk, 23,686 ; value, $4,722 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 10,205;  value, $4,678;  lbs. of  Cheese, 550 ; value, $HO.•
Beef, dressed, lbs., 225,284; value, $27,137. Pork, dressed, lbs., 98,558; value, $17,720• . Mutton, dressed, lbs., 4,233 ; value, $650. Veal, dSBed, lbs., 18,639 ; value, $2,122.
Swine, 167 ; value, $2,820; value of Poultry sold, $1,385 ; value of Eggs sold, $994; lbs. of Honey, 755 ; value, $272; lbs. of Beeswax, 15 ; t"alue, $7.50.
Sewing-Machine Needles, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value m'd,
$8,000 ; value of stock used, $600 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 4.


WARREN.

Cotton Mills, 2 ; Cotton Spindles, 7,524 ; lbs. of Cotton consumed, 840,687 ; value of stock used, $302,122.50 ; yards of Cotton Cloth m'd, 1,073,466 ; value, $343,455.98 ; yards Warp m'd, 728,000; nlue, $145,000 ; cap., $40,000 ; m. emp., 62; f. emp., 87.
Woollen Mills, 1; sets of Woollen Machinery, 2 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 75,000 ; value of stock used, $16,000; yards of  Cassi­ mere  m'd,  150,000 ; value,  $250,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; m.  emp., 16;•
f. emp., 14.
Cotton; Woollen, and other :Machinery, establishments for the m. of, 1; t"alue of stock used, $120,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $250,000 ; cap., $25,000 ; hands emp., 65.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1 ; value of stock used,
$198; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 1,600 ; value, $500; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1.
Looking-Glasses and Picture Frames, value of stock used, $150 ; frames m'd, 75 ; value, $225.
Saddles, Harnesses, and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 1; har­ nesses m'd, 15; value, $450 ; value of stock used, $200.
Military Goods. and Equipments, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $14,800 ; Government Screw-drivers m'd, 300,000 ; value, $35,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. crop., 40.
Ink, manufuctories of, 1; value of stock used, $10,000 ; gross of Ink m'd, 3,000 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $3,500 ; nlue of clothing m'd, $5,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; m. cmp., 2.
1865.J	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	683
WoacEsTEB Co.	WAUEN.

Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value  of work done, $3,500 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 4.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,200 ; value of tin ware m'd, 52,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; hands emp., 2. •
Flouring  Mills, '2 ; bush.  of Grain  ground,  46,500; value,  $70,000 ;
cap., $7,800 ; hands emp , 3.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $15,000 ; Hides tanned, 2,000 ; Hides tanned and curried, 2,000 ; value of Leather tanned and curried, $30,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 9. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 1,752; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd1 12,000 ; Yalue of stock used, $10,650; value of boots abd shoes m'd,
$13,300 ; cap., $7,600 ; m. emp., 23; f. emp., 5.
Planing Mills and establishments for the m. of Sashes, Doors, and Blinds, 1; value of stock used, $200 ; value of work done, $300 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 1.
Saw  Mills, 4 ; feet  of Lumber  prepared  for market, 700,000 ; value,
$17,500 ; Telegraph Poles, value, $8,000; cap., $8,000 ; hands emp., 22.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, oonls, 4,500 ; value, $27,000. Farms, 127 ; acres, 15,875; value, including Buildings, $776,235 ; acre.,
improved, 500 ; persons employed, 210. Unimproved Land, acres, 12,900.
Unimprovable Land, acl'C$, 1,000. Woodland, acres, 1,875 ; value, $75,000.
Indian Corn, acres, 150; bush., 5,113; value, $5,113.
Wheat, acres, 25!; bush., 264 ; value, $528. Rye, acres. 41 ; bush., 438; value, $649.50. Barley, 181; bush.,·368!; value, $368.50.
Buckwheat, acres, 13!; bush., 200 ; value, $200. Oats, acres, 122 ; bush., 4,880 ; value, $4,880.
Potatoes, acres, 115; bush., 9,000;  value, $6,450.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 3 ; bush., 400 ; value, $300. Carrots, acres, 1; bush., 860 ; value, $216.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,222 ; tons  of  English  hay, 2,427 ; value,
$48,540.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 543 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 412 ; value, $4,120.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 780 ; value of apples, $725. Sheep, 327 ; value, $1,451 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 925 ; value, $647.50.
Horses, 254 ; value, $22,550 ; Oxen over four years old, 164 ; Steers under four years old, 66 ; value of oxen and steers, $18,810 ; Milch
80
634	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
WEBSTER.	WORCESTER  Co.

Cows, 998 ; Heifers, 144 ; value of cows and heifers, $44,245 ; yaJue of Neat Stock not  embraced  alxrrn, (30  Bulls,)  $!WO ; gallons  of Milk sold, 174,026 ; value, $24,008.31 ; lbs. of Blttter sold, 3,000 ; value, $1,200; 1. of Chee.o,e, 124,180 ; value, $22,94.20.
Beef, dressed, I 134,950 ; value, $12,145.50.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 34,030; value, $6,125.40. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 9,335 ; value, $1,182.20. Veal, dressed, lbs., 28,803 ; value, $4,032.42.
Cheese Factories, 1; lbs. Cheese m'd, 91,000 ; value, $20,020 ; m. emp.,
2 ; f. emp., 2.
Swine, 184 ; value, SI,988; value of Poultry sold, $175 ; value of Eggs sold, $40.


WEBSTER.
Cotton lli&, 1 ; Cotton Spindles, 26,088; lbs. Cotton corummed, 270,997; gross value of stock used, $365,559 ; yards of Paper Cambric m'd, 2,147,208; gross value of cloth  m'd,  $433,745 ; lbs. of Yarn  m'd and not made into cloth, 70,848 ; value, $70,848 ; cap., $180,000 ; m. emp., 198 ; £ emp., 156.
Cotton Goods, establishments for bleaching or coloring, not connected with calico or mousseline de laine establishments, 1•; yards of goods bleached  or  colored, 2,147,208 ; value  before  bleaching  or colormg,
$433,745 ; value after, $457,36!) ; hands emp., 18.
WooUen Mills, I ; !!ets Woollen Machinery, 27 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 800,000 ; gross value of stock used, $855,000 ; yards of Broadcloth m'd, 238,332 ; value, $1,172,000 ; cap., $216,600 ;" m. emp.,  223;  f. emp., 185.
Printing and Newspaper Establishments, I ; value of stock used, $800 ; newspaper printed, (Webstel" Times,) 1; issued weekly ; gross value,
$750 ; cap., $3,000 ; value of all other  printing done, $1,450 ; m.
emp., 2.
Da,c,,ruerreian and Photographic Establishments, I ; value of stock used, S300 ; daguerreotypes aod photographs taken, 2,500 ; value, $800 ; cap., $200 ; f. emp., 1.
Harnesses, establishments for the m. of, I ; harnes.'!CS m'd, 20 ; Yalue,
$800 ; value of stock used, $400 ; cap., $100 ; hands emp., 1. Clothing, establishments  for  the  m. of, 4 ; value of  stock u, $6,800 ;
value of clothing m'd, $12,800; cap., $2,600 ; m. emp., 7 ; f. emp., 9.

•Thil •tablilhmeDt II conneded  with the fonplag Cotton llllla.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	635

WoncEsTER  Co.	WEBSTER,

Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of nrtic!es from, 1; value of stock used, $1,800 ; Headstones and Monuments m'd, 200 ; value, $4,000 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 4.
Soap, establishments  for the  m. of, 1 ; value of  stock·used, $600 ; bbls.  of soft soap m'd, 300 ; value,  $1,200 ; cap., $500 ; bands emp.,  2.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,100 ; vnlue of work done,
$3,200 ; cap., $450; hands emp., 4.	•
Tin Ware Manufactories, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,400 ; value of tin ware m'd, $2,200 ; cap., $1,000 ; bands emp., 2.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 125 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 284,000 ;
value  of   stock   used,   $300,320 ;  value  of  boots   and   shoes   m'd,
$414,200 ; cap., $32,100 ; m. emp., 206 ; f. emp., 79.
Bonnets,  establishments  for  the  m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $600 ;
Silk Bonnets m'd, 250 ; value, $1,400 ; cap., $600 ; f. emp., 2.
Coffins and Burial Cases of all kinds, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $950 ; coffins m'd, 150 ; value, $1,500; cap., $700 ; hands emp., 2.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved, 400 ; value, $600 ; cap., $250 ; hands emp., 1.
Bakeries, 1 ; value of stock used, $7,500; value of Bread m'd, $10,000 ;
cap., $500 ; hands emp., 4.
Saw Mills,  1 ; feet of  Lumber  prepared  for  market,  300,000 ; cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Firewood prepared for market, cords, 1,606; value, $7,227 ; hands emp., 10.
Farms, 78 ; acres, 5,892 ; value, inclnding Buildings, $168,740 ; acres improved, 2,623 ; persons emp., 80.
Unimproved Land, acres, 306. Unimprovable Land, acres, 637. Woodland, acres, 3,568;  value, $49,087.
Indian Corn, acres, 97 ; bush., 2,716 ; valtie, $4,753.
Rye, acres, 14!; bush., 169 ; value, $838. Buckwheat, acres, 6!; bush., 60; value, $84. Oats, acres, 71; bush., 1,482 ; value, $1,333. Potatoes, acres, 48! ; bush., 8,679 ; value, $3,311.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 5 ; bush., 2,000 ; value, $250.
Cabbage, acres, 2 ; value, $400.
Beans, acres, 1 ; bush ., 20 ; value, $60.
English  Mowing,  acres,  735! ;  tons  of   English  hay,  702 ;   value,
$17,550.


686
,

STATISTICS  OF THE



(1865.
WESTBOROUGH,

WORCESTER   Co.
Wet  Meadow   or  Swale   mown,  acres,  152 ;  tons  of  wet  meadow  or
·swale bay, 108;  value, $1,296.
Apple-trees culth·ated for their fruit, 2,171 ; value of apples, $795; Pear-trees culth·ated for their fruit, 359 ; value of pears,  $114.
Sheep, 17 ; value, $124 ; lbs. of  Wool produced, 57 ; value, $28.50.
Horses, 178; value, $17,800; Oxen over four years old, 67 ; Steere under four years old, 14 ; value of oxen and steers, $6,700 ; Milch Cows, 245; Heifers,· 50 ; value of cows and  heifers,  $11,420 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced  above,  (8 Bulls,)  $200; gallons of Milk sold, 23,625 ; value, $5,586 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 3,459 ; value,
$1,383 ; lbs. of Cheese, 775; value, $93. Beef, dressed, lbs., 270,500 ; value, $32,460. Pork, dressed, lbs., 51,470 ; value, $8,235. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 8,000 ; value, $1,600. Veal, dressed, lbs., 32,210 ; value, $4,509.
Swine, 85 ; value, $1,324 ; value of Poultry sold, $803 ; value of Eggs sold, $279.


WESTBOROUGH.
Mechanics'  Tools  m'd, value,  $800; value  of stock  used, $200; cap.,
$500;  bands  emp,, 2.
Hoop Skirts, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $150 ; hoop skirts m'd, 144 ; value, $225; cap., $200 ; f.emp., 1.
Looking-Glasses and Picture Frames, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $450; number articles m'd, 600 ; value, $900 ; cap.,$250 ; bands emp., 1.
Harnesses, establishments  for the  m. of, 1 ; harnesses- m'd, 6 ; value,
$240 ; value of stock used, $120 ; cap., $200 ; bands emp., 1.
Upholstery Manufactories, l; value of stock ueed, $600 ; value of upholstery m'd, $800 ; cap., $300 ; m. emp., 1.
W8t1,10ns, Sleighs, and other vehicles, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; wagons  and  sleighs  m'd,  1,076;  other  vehicles  m'd,  50 ;  value,
$28,250 ; value of stock used, $9,575 ; cap., $17,775 ; band;, emp., 22. Clothing, establishments for m. of, 2 ; nlue of stock used, $2,650; value  of  clothing   m'd,  $8,249.67 ;  cap.,  $4,000 ; m.  emp., 5 ; f.
emp., 16.
Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of articles from, 3 ; value of stock used, S250 ; Marble, Granite, and Freestone m'd, value, $15,000; cap., $2,500; bands  emp.,'10.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	637
WoRci-sTER   Co.	WESTBOROUGH.


Master Builders, 4 ; Buildings erected, 3; value, $8,050 ; value of the materials used, $5,775; hands emp., 13.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; value of stock  used, $875; value of work done,
$7,3J 0.32 ; cap., $2,250; hands emp., 6.
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $1,000; value of tin ware m'd, $1,000 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands emp., 3.
Flouring Mills, 4 ; bush. of Grain ground, 13,700 ; value, $13,700; cap., $2,000; hands emp., 4.
Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $64,202 ; Sides cur­ ried, 17,245; value of Leather curried, $77,000 ; cap., $8,000; hands emp., 27.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 101,586 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 255,580 ; groSB value of stock used, $289,041 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $450,683; cap., $40,100 ; m. emp., 286 ; £ emp., 58.
Straw Bonnets and Hats, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $26,529; straw bonnets m'd, 3,700; value, $400; straw hats m'd, 38,600; value, $34,000; Felt Hats made, 2,000; value, $2,500; cap., $4,700 ; m. emp., 17 ; £ emp., 262.
Palm Leaf Hats, Hoods, and Bonnets, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; palm leaf hoods m'd, 41,800 ; value,
$8,500 ; cap., $1,200; m. emp., 3 ; f. emp., 50.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $1,650 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $2,436 ; cap., $500·; m. emp., 2;
Bakeries,   l ; value  of  stock  used,  $30,000 ;  value  of   Bread m'd,
$32,000 ; cap., $12,500 ; hands·emp., 10.
Saw  Mills, 4 ; feet  of Lumber  prepared for market, 264,000;   value,
$19,680 ; cap., $3,000; hands emp., 4.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 1,2471; value, $6,287.83.
Farms, 18i; acres, 11,5191; value, including Buildings, $125,575.69 ; acres improved, 5,909f ; persons emp., 198.
Unimproved LMd, acres, 5,609f. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,821}. Woodland, acres, 2,1651; value, $64,957.65.
Indian Com. acres, 332\ ; bush., 12,790; value, $19,417. Wheat, acres, l; bush., 7\ ; value, $12.
Rye, acres, 31i; bush., 455 ; value, $842. ·
Barley, acres, 31 i; bush., 615; value, $708. Buckwheat, acres, 2f ; bush., 37 ; value, $38. Oats, acres, 1831; bush., 4,763; value, $4,762.50.
Millet, acres, If; bush., 40; value, $40.
Potatoes, acres, 157t ; bosh., 16,159; value, $13,799.
688	STATISTICS  OF  THE	(1865.
WESTBOROUGH.	WORCESTER Co.

Turnips cultivated  as  a  field  crop, acres, 26nr ; bu.sh., 4,297 ; value,
$1,018.07.
Onions, acres, 1n ; bush., 423 ; value, $655.40. Carrots, acres,  -h ;  bush.,  4621 ; value, $165.
Cabbage, acres,  1/; value,  $846. Wint.er  Squash, acres, 1y'-g ; value, $93.
Market Gardening, acres, 2i ; value of products, $475.
Beets  and  other  esculent  vegetables,  acres,  41; bush., 1,623 ; value,
$620.90.
Cranberries, acres, 3 ; bush., 87 ; value, $110.
English  Mowing,  acres, 2,124! ;  tons  of  English  llay,  2,476! ; value,
$55,892.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 788!; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 828!; value,  $9,256.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,121 ; value, $5,530; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 8,597 ; value, $656 ; all other trees culti­ vated for their fruit, 312 ; value of the fruit, $15; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $85.
Merino Sheep, 9 ; all other kinds of sheep, 4 ; value, $150; lbs. of Merino Wool, 81; value, $4:l.
Horses, 276 ; Yalue,  $24,659 ; Oxen oYer four years old, 116 ; Steers
under four years old, 35 ; value of oxen and steers, $4,507 ; l\lilch Cows, 885 ; Heifers, 181 ; value,  $30,668 ;  value  of  Neat  Stock not embraced above, (27 Bulls, Calves, &c.,) $1,147 ; gallons of Milk sold, 237,422 ; value, $40,181.34 ; pounds of Butter sold, 6,356 ; value, $2,753.26 ; pounds of  Cheese, 401; value, $69.40.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 105,939 ; value, $11,864.68.	· Pork, dressed, lbs., 48,058 ; value, $7,543.95.
Veal, dressed, lbs., 11,104; value, $1,411.88.
Swine, 404 ; value, $30,817 ; value of Poultry i,;old, $631.97 ; value of Eggs sold, $772.75 ; lbs. of Honey, 528; value, $212 ; lbs. of Bees­ wax, 18; value, $11.10; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce,    $1,113.50.
l\lillinery Goods, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value m'd, $1,400 ; value of stock used, $750 ; cap., $900 ; f. cmp., 4.
Cider m'd, bbls., 300 ; value, $1,500 ; cap., $1,000; hands emp., 3.
INDUSTRY  OF MASSACHUSETTS.	639
WORCESTER  Co.	WEST  BOYLSTON.
WEST BOYLSTON.

Cotton 1Iills, 3; number of Spindles, 15,844 ; lbs. Cotton consumed, 216,952 ; value of stock used, $186,031.13; yards Cotton Cloth m'd, (Corset Jeans, yards, 704,5591; Light Print Cloth, yards, 132,501 ;) 837,0601; gross value of the cloth m'd, $210,215.50; Cotton Quilts and Counterpanes m'd, 13,659 ; value,  $42,009 ; cap., $211,300 ; m. emp., 95 ; f. emp., 117.
Woollen llills, 1; sets of Woollen Machinery, 4 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 158,500 ; gross value of stock used, $38,240 ; Army Blankets m'd, 3,800 ; value, $176,500 ; cap., $29,120 ; m. emp., 45 ;
f. emp., 50.
Shoddy, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value  of stock  used, $2,500 ;
lbs. of shoddy m'd, 31,200 ; value, $3,744 ; cap., $1,000; m. emp., 1 ;
f. emp., 1.
Cotton, Woollen and other Machinery, establliihments for the m. of, 1 ; gross nlue of stock use<), $1,082 ; value of machinery m'd, $4,286 ; cap., $3,000 ; hands  emp., 3.
Blacksmith Shops, 2 ; value of stock used, $300 ;  value  of  work done, $1,300 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 2.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $600; cap., $200 ; hands emp., I.
Tin Ware  Manufactories, 1; value  of  stock  used, 1100 ; value  of tin
ware m'd, $300 ; cap., $500 ; hands emp., 1.	·
Flouring Mills, 1; bush. of Grain ground, 20,000; ,·alue,  $30,000 ; bbls. of Flour m'd, 600; value, $8,200 ; cap., $7,000 ; hands emp., 3. Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 105,332 ; Shoes, pairs of all kinds m'd, 400 ; gross value of stock used, $281,000; value of boots and shoes
m'd,  $375,939.21;  cap., $47,200;  m. emp., 179 ;  f. emp., 7.
Palm Leaf Bonnets, establishments for the m. of, I ; value of stock used, $200 ; Shaker Bonnets m'd, 2,000 ; value, SGOO ; cap., $200 ;
m. emp., I ; £ emp., 6.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; tons of ice preserved for market, 6 ; value, $250 ; cap., $300 ; hands emp., I.
Saw l\Iills, 8; feet of Lumber prepared for market, 148,000; value, S3,700 ; Shingles prepared for market, 30,000 ; value, $90 ; Railroad Sleepers, 2,500; value, $1,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; hands cmp., 3.
Firewood and Bark prepar<'d  for market, cord>', 2,170; value,   $10,124.20.
Farms,   143;   acre: 8,075 ;   value,   including    Buildings,   $356,150 ;
acres of  land improved, 5,881 ; per:!0115  emp., 205.
Unimproved  Land, acres, 2,194.
640	STATISTICS OF THE	[18.
WEST   BOYLSTON.	WoncEsTER Co.

Unimprovable Land, acres, 84. Woodland, acres, 2,110 ; value, $63,300.
Indian Com, acres, 197f ; bush., 7,263; value, $12,710.25.
Wheat, acres, 3!; bush., 38; value, $95. Rye, acres, 27t ; bush., 355!; value, S711.
Barley, acres, 43t ; buAh., 889 ; value, $1,338.50. Buckwheat, acres, 7l; bush., 104; value, $156. Oats, acres, 106t ; bush., 8,119 ; value, $8,119.
Beans, acres, 1; bush., 24 ; ,·alue, $84.
Potatoes, acres, 131!; bush., 14,579 ; value, $10,944.25.
Turnips cultivated as a field crop, acres, 1l; bush., 885 ; Yalue, $19.25.
Carrots, acres, J l ; bush., 350 ; value, $262.50. Cabbage, acres, i ; value, $845.
Beet.s and other esculent vegetables, acres, l; bush., 229 ; value, $175.75.
English  Mowing,  acres,  1,512 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,510 ; value,
$45,800.	.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 276 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 228; value, $2,786.	·
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 10,700; value of apples, $2,792.80 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 518 ; value of pears, $70.50 ;  all
!)ther trees cultivated for their fruit, 71; value of Nuts or Berries cultivated  or gathered  for market, $65.
Saxony Sheep of <lft"erent grades, 5 ; Merino Sheep of different grades, 4 ; all other kinds of sheep, 86; gross value, $240 ; lbs. of Wool produced  from  Saxony  sheep, 37 ; value, $37 ; lbs. of  Merino Wool,
21  ; value,  $21.50 ; lbs.  of  all other  wool  produced,  113 ; value,
$79.10.
Horses, 210 ; value, $18,200 ; Oxen oYer four years old, 62 ; Steers under four years old, 14; value of oxen and steers, $5,720 ; Milch Cows, 415 ; Heifers, 7 ; value of cows and heifers, $22,500 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, (34 Two-Year olds, $880 ; 46 Year­ lings, $720 ;) $1,550 ; gallons of Milk sold, 26,043 ; value, $1,687.7,i ; lbs. of Butter sold, 16,255 ; value, $7,814.75; lbs. of Cheese, 1,700 ; value, $820,
Beef, dressed, lbs.• 150,000 ; value, $21,000. Por4t, dressed, lbs., 48,763; value, $7,802.08. Mutton, dresed, lbs., 900 ; value,  $180.
Veal, dressed, lb!!., 5,040 ; value, $705.60.	•
Swine, 107 ; value, Sl,855 ; value of Poultry sold, $344 ; value of  Eggs sold, $1,095; lbs. of Honey, 352 ; value, $105.60; lbs. of Bees-
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	641
WoacssTJtR .Co.
WEST BROOKFIELD•
wax, 14; value,  $5.18 ; value of unenumerated  articles  of Farm
. Produce, $222.
Baskets and Weather Strips for Doors, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; vaJue  of  articles  m'd,  $4,575 ;  value  of  stock  used,  $450;  cap.,
$1,000 ; m. emp., 6.


WEST   BROOKFIELD.
Boote, pairs of all kinds m'd, 800,000; value of stock used, $525,000 ; value of boots m'd, $905,500 ; cap.,  $90,000;  m.  emp., 827 ; f. emp., 27.
Farms, 211; acres, 12,882 ; value, including Buildings, $294,275 ; acres of Land improved, 8,597 ; persons emp., 290.
Unimproved Land, acres, 4,808. Unimprovable Land, acres, 50. Woodland, acres, 1,004 ; value, $68,285.
Indian Corn, acres, 189 ; bush., 5,881; value, $5,381.
Wheat, acres, 8 ; bush., 111; value, $222. • Rye, acres, 45 ; bush., 717 ; value, $717.
Oats, acres, 176 ; bush., 4,228; value, $2,686.
All other grain crops, acres, 118 ; bosh., 1,416 ; valu.e.., $949• Potatoes,  acres,  192 ; bush.,  17,845 ; value,  $8,922.
Tobacco, acres, 6!; lbs., 12,000 ; value, $1,840.
English  Mowing,  acres, 2,049 ; tons  of  English  bay, 2,050 ; value,
$40,100.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 812 ; tons of wet meadow or swale bay, 720 ; value, $7,200.
Apple-trees coltivated for their fruit, 20,164 ; value of apples, $21,640 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 229 ; value of pears, $2,290 ; all other trees, 60; value, $400.
Saxony Sheep, 2 ; Merino Sheep, 102 ; all other kinds of sheep, 12 ; value, $580 ; lbs. of Saxony Wool produced, 20 ; value, $26 ; lbe. of Merino Wool, 812; value, $270; lbs. of all other wool produced, 160;  value, $120.
Hones, 217 ; value, $18,445 ; Oxen over four years old, 94 ; Steers under four years old, 92 ; value of oxen and steers, $11,805; Milch Cows, 620 ; Heifers, 183; value of cows and heifers, $22,205 ; value of Neat Stock not embraced above, $4,808 ; gallons of Milk sold, 86,804 ; value, $17,260; lbs. of Butter sold, 4,484 ; value, $1,778; lbs. of Cheese, 118,488; value, $19,078.
81
642	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
WBSTJONSTBR.	WoaossTER    Co.

Beef, dressed, lbs, 28,148; value, $2,814. Pork, dressed, lbs., 47,058 ; value, $7,842.
. Veal, dressed, lbs., 46,500 ; value, $4,650.
Swine, 187 ; value, $1,125; value of Poultry sold,  $618 ;  value  of Eggs sold, $129 ; value of unenumerated articles of Farm Produce,
$3,000.


WESTMINSTER.
Paper Manufactoriee, 8 ; tone of stock consumed, 600 ; value, $200,000 ; tons of Paper m'd, 250 ; value, $250,000 ; cap., $40,000 ; m. emp., 12 ; f. emp., 8.
Blacksmith  Shops, 4 ; value of stock used, $590 ; value of work done,
$1,485 ; cap., $200 ; hands emp., 6.
Chairs and Settees, manufactories of, 7 ; value of stock need, $28,850 ; chairs and settees made, 97,800 ; value, $48,440 ; cap., $14,550 ; m. emp., 63 ; £ emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 1; bush.•of Grain ground, 12,000 ; value, $12,000 ; bbls. Flour m'd, 75; value, $600 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 70; Shoes, pairs of all kinda m'd, 90 ; value of stock used, $340 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, $615; cap.,
$60 ; m. emp., 4.
Wooden Ware of all sorts, establishments for the m. of, I ; value of stock used, $60 ; value of ware m'd, $275 ; cap., $60 ; hands emp., 1. Pickles and Preserves, establishments for the m. of, I ; value of stock used,  $8,800 ; value of  pickles  and  preserves m'd,  $5,000 ; cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Bakeries,  1; value  of stock  used,  $10,000 ; value  of  Bread m'd,
$15,000; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp , 8.
Saw Mills, 6 ; feet of Lumber prepared  for  market, 970,000 ;  value,
$55,278 ; Shingles prepared for market, 200,000; value, $600 ; cap.,
$1,250 ; hands emp., 8.
:Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 2,576 ; value, $7,849 ; cap., $2,515 ; hands emp.; 18.
Farme, 220 ; acres, 21,278!; value, including Buildings, $584,629 ; acres improved, 11,690 ; persons emp., 225.
Unimproved Land, acres, 2,457. Unimprovable Land, acres, 725. Woodland, acres, 5,896 ; value, $87,041.
Indian Corn, acres, 162 ; bush., 4,768 ; value, $7,146.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS .	648
WoacESTER   Co.	WINCHENDON.

Wheat, acres, 81; bosh., 416 ; value, $882. Rye, acres, 7 ; bush., 100 ; value, $175.
Barley, acres, 67 ; bush., 1,294 ; value, $1,164.60. Oats, acres,- 66; bush., 1,628;  value, $1,217.25.
Potatoes, acres, 250 ; bush., 29,282 ; value, $15,569.20.
Carrots, bush., 500 ; value, $800.
English  Mowing,  acres,  2,498;  tons  of  English  hay,  1,987 ; value,
$49,675.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 774 ; tons of wet meadow or swale hay, 503 ;_ value, $6,036.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 5,563; value of the apples, $2,960. Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 415; value of the pears, $132 ; value of  Nuts or Berries cultivated or gathered for market, $115.
Sheep, Old Native, 878; value, $2,290 ; lbs. of Wool produced, 880 ; value, $528.
Horses, 244 ; value, $17,844 ; Oxen over four years old, 118; Steers under four years old, 132; value of oxen and steers, $l3,872 ; Milch Cows, 500; Heifers, 224 ; value of cows and heifers, $28,978 ; gallons of Milk sold, 1,289 ; value, $257.80; lbs. of Butter sold, 18,24.6; value, $5,298.40; lbs. of Cheese, 2,965; value, $855.80,
Beef, dressed, lbs., 149,888; value, $12,540.42. Pork, dreeeed, lbs., 80,809 ; value, $12,922.44. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 2,200 ; value, $198, Veal, dreesed, lbs., 7,778; value, $777.30.
Swine, 107 ; value, $2,188; value of Poultry sold, $722 ; value of Eggs sold, $490; Houey, lbs., 100 ; value, $35 ; value of uueuu• merated articles of Fann Produce, $1,226.
Woollen Cloth m'd in the family, yards, 4.5; value, $90.
Chairs Seated, value, $7,811.	•

WINCHENDON.

Cotton Mille, 2 ; Cotton Spindles, 7,252 ; lbs. of Cotton consumed, 208,000 ; gross value of stock used, $260,000 ; yards of Sheeting m'd, 624,000; value, $301,080- ; cap., $52,000 ; m. emp., 45; f. emp., 60. Cotton, Woollen and other Machinery, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; gross value of stock used, $11,600 ; value of machinery m'd, $42,000 ;
cap., $34,000; hands emp., 42.

TIie abne II tbe prodoe& of  mllla runnln1 full time;  but  tbe1 baft  run  bat  o-tblrd of  tbe
tim.-co1111qaeaU,  produced bat oa•tblrd of  1h11uaoaat.
64'	STATISTICS OF THE	(1865.
WINCHENDON.	WORCESTER   Co.

Printing Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $600 ; value of print­ ing done, $1,800 ; cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 1; f. emp., 1.
Sewiug-Machine Manufactories, 5; value of stock used, $16,618; num­ ber m'd, 11,079 ; value, $88,632 ; cap., $12,000; hands emp., 88.
Daguerreian and Photographic Establishments, 1; daguerreotypes and photographs taken, 2,000 ; value, $900 ; cap., $400 ; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 1.
·Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments  for  the m. of, 1; value  of repairing, jobbing, &c., $2,500 ; value of stock used, $1,000; cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 2.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of clothing m'd, $12,800 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 4; £ emp., 10. Marble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of articles from,  1; value  of  stock  used,  $1,000 ; value  of  Gravestones  and
Monuments m'd,  $8,500;  cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 8.
Sperm and Tallow Candles, and Soap, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $135; lbs. of  tallow candles made, 1,000;    value,
$180 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 617 ; value, $2,468 ; lbs. of hard soap m'd, 1,500 ; value, $150 ; cap., $1,000 ; hands emp., 2.
Master Buildel'!I, 2; Buildings erected, 15 ; value, $15,000 ; value of materials used, $8,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Blacksmith  Shops, 2 ; value of stock  used,  $3,QOO ; value of work   done,
$7,000 ; cap., $2,000;  hands emp., 7.
Cabinet Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $500 ; value of chairs and cabinet ware m'd, $1,000.; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 1,
Tin Ware Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value of tin ware m'd, $1,800 ; cap., $1,200 ; hands emp., 2.
Flouring Mills, 2 ; bush. Grain ground, 44,000 ; value, $71,000 ; cap.,
$6,500 ; hands emp., 8.
Tanning Establishments, 1; value of stock used, $60,000 ; Hides tanned,
85,000 ; value of Leather  tanned, $80,000 ; cap., $75,000 ; hands
emp., 18.
Boots, pairs  of  all kinds  m'd, 150 ; Shoes, pairs  of all kinds m'd, 40 ;
gross  value  of  stock  used  in  m. of  boots  and  shoes, and  repairing,
$1,500 ; value of boots and shoes m'd, and repairing, $3,500 ; cap.,
$2,600 ; m. emp., 8.
Pail and Tub Manufactories, 7 ; value of stock used, $118,100 ; pails m'd, 898,000 ; tubs m'd, 171,500 ; value of pails and tube, $259,904 ; cap., $140,500 ; rn. emp., 210; f. emp., 10.
Chums, Measures, Cheese-Hoops, &c., value of stock used for the m.   of,
$24,000 ; value m'd, $58,000 ; cap., $16,000; hands emp., 20.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETI'S.	645
WORCESTER  Co.	WINCHENDON,

Boxes, establishments  for  the  m. of, 8; value of stock used, $8,100 ;
value of Wooden  Boxes made,  $82,000; cap., $8,600 ; m. emp.,  7;
f. emp., 8.
Ice for market, establishments for the preservation of, 1; t.ons of ice preserved, 200 ; value, $800; cap., $500; hands emp., 1,	' ·
Saw Mills,  14; feet of  Lumber prepared  for market,  1,590,000 ; value,
$23,850 ; cap., $30,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Firewood and Bark prepared for market, cords, 4,000 ; value, $16,000 ;
cap., $12,000 ; hands emp., 12,
Farms, 210; acres, 24,855; value, including Buildings, $677,919 ; acres improved, 8,355 ; persons emp., 350.
Unimproved Land, acres, 15,000. Unimprovable Land, acres, 1,500. Woodland, acres,  6,500;  value, $130,000.
Indian Com, acres, 97 ; bush., 1,940;  value, $2,910.
Wheat, acres, 15 ; bush., 270 ; value, $540.
Rye, acres, 20 ; bush., 300 ; value, $525. Barley, acres, 110 ; bush., 2,200 ; value, $2,750. Buckwheat, acres, 15 ; bush., 120; value, $150. Oats, acres, 35 ; bush., 1,000 ; value, $900.
Potatoes, acres, 200 ; bush., 20,000 ; value, $10,000.
Carrots, acres, 3; bush., 1,200; value, $600.
Cabbage, acres, 2 ; value, $400.
English   Mowing,  acres,  2,550 ;  t.ons  .of   English   hay,  1,650 ; value,
$41,250.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 750; tons of wet meadow or swale hay,  550 ; value, $4,400.
Apple-trees cultivated for their fruit, 3,000 ; value of apples, $2,500 ; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 500 ; value of pears, $100 ; bush. of Blueberries and Blackberries cultivated or gathered for market, 150.
Sheep,  470 ; value,  $1,880 ; lbs.  of  Wool  produced,  1,400;  value,
$1,057.
Horses, 312; value, $28,080 ; Oxen over four years old, 108 ; Steers under four years old, 169 ; value of oxen and steers, $12,793; Milch Cows, 488; Heifers, 150 ; value of cows and heifers, $21,110 ; gallons of Milk sold, 9,125 ; value, $8,221 ; lbs. of Butter sold, 18,250 ; value, $5,475 ; lbs. of Cheese, 6,435 ; value, $772.20.
Beef, dressed, lbs., 126,000 ; value, $18,948. Pork, dressed, lbs., 88,8:!5 ; value, $6,898. Mutton, dressed, lbs., 8,000 ; value, $860.
646	STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
WORCESTER.	WORCESTER   Co.

Veal, dressed, lbs., 25,000 ; value, $2,500.
Poultry sold, value, $1,500 ; value of Egge sold, $825 ; lbs. of Honey, 300 ; value, $120.
Palm   Leaf  Hats  m'd  in the family  and  not  before  enumerated,   value,
·· $1,500.
·Seating Chairs, value of labor, $3,500.
Wooden Faucets, Spools and Bobbins, establishments for the m. of, 1; value m'd, $30,000 ; value of stock used,  $11,200 ; cap., $15,000 ;
m. emp., 27.
Pail Ears, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used, $4,500 ; value of ears made, $6,000 ; cap., $1,700 ; hands emp., 1.
Zinc Washboards and Mops, manufactories  of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$17,500;   value  of  washboards  and   mops  made,   $22,000 ;   cap.,
$7,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Clothes  Wringers, manufaetories  of, 1; nlue of  stock  used, $1o,OOO ;
value of wringers made, $20,000 ; cap., $10,000 ; hands emp., 5. Toy Carts and Wheelbarrows, manufactories of, 1; value of stock used,
$2,000 ; value of toy carts and wheelbarrows made, $5,000 ; cap.,
$1,500 ; hands emp., 6.



WORCESTER.

Cotton Mills, 2 ; Cotton Spindles, 6,600 ; Cotton consumed, lbs., 100,500 ; value of stock used, $55,475; yards  of  Drilling  m'd, 78,000 ; yards of Sheeting m'd, 3,500 ; value of cloth m'd, $20,375 ; yards of Satinet Warps m'd and not made into cloth, 624,000 ; value,
$49,400 ; cap., $100,000 ; m. emp., 37 ; f. emp., 49.
Woollcn Mills, 11 ; sets of Woollen Machinery, 42 ; lbs. of Scoured Wool consumed, 820,000 ; 't'alue of stock used, $1,185,550 ; Cas­ simere m'd, 1,250,000 ; '\'aloe, $1,700,000 ; yards of Satinet m'd, 677,719 ; value, $429,337 ; yards of  Union Beavers, 16,800 ; value,
$33,600 ; cap., $842,000 ; m. emp., 351; f. emp., 370.
Painted Car Lining, mills for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $18,000 ; value m'd, $80,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 8.
S4oddy, establishments for the m. of, 3; value of stock used, $9,320 ; lbs. of Shoddy m'd, 173,200 ; value, $92,920 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 12 ; f. emp., 1.
Rolling Mills, 2 ; value of stock used, besides old rails, re-rolled  to order,
$350,000 ; tons of iron m'd  and not  made into rails, 3,800 ; value,



a	Digitized by Google
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSE'ITS.	647
WOBCB8TEB .Co.	WORCESTER.

$500,000 ; to of rails m'd, 10,000 ; Car Wheels m'd, 5,000 ; Loco· motive Tires m'd, 600 ; value, $800,000 ; cap., $500,000; hands emp., 475.
Wire Manufactories, 8 ; value of stock used,  $950,000 ; tons of  wire
m'd, 4,716 ; value, $1,500,000 ; cap., $600,000 ; m. emp., 685 ; f. emp., 40.
Hollow Ware and Castings, other than  pig  iron, furnaces for    the m. of,
6; value of stock used, $890,950 ; tons of hollow ware and other castings m'd, 5,781; value, $757,668; cap., $188,000; hands emp., 806.
Cotton, Woollen, and other Machinery, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $606,000 ; value of machinery m'd, $1,190,080 ; cap., $224,000 ; hands emp., 593.
Machine and Hand Cards of all  kinds, establishments for the m. of, 1; feet  of  Machine   Cards   m'd,   108,500 ;  value,   $239,629 ; cap.,·
$80,000 ; m. emp., 80 ; f. emp., 7.
Steam·Engiues and Boilers, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock  used,  $3,000;  steam.engines   and   boilers  built,  8 ;   value,
$9,600; cap., $6,000; hands emp., 6.
Edge  Tools,  establishments  for  the  m. of,  2 ;  value  of  stock used,
$30,000 ; value of Mowing Machine Knives and Machine Cutters m'd, $59,700 ; cap., $18,000; hands emp., 26.
Files, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of work in :re.cutting files,
$8,593; cap., $850; hands emp., 7.
Mechanics' Tools m'd and  not  elsewhere enumerated,  value, $710,827 ;
value of  stock used,  $272,560;  cap., $288,400;  hands emp.,  434.
Nuts, Washen, &c., establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$15,000 ; value of nuts and other goods m'd, $35,000 ; cap., $5,000 ;
hands emp., 20.
Shoe Nail Manufactories, .1 ; value of stock used, $12,800 ; lb. of shoe nails m'd, 182,845 ; value, $23,000 ; cap., $5,000; hands emp., 5. Ploughs and other Agricultural Implements, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value  of stock  used, $470,400 ; ploughs  m'd, 14,140; value,
$150,100 ; 5,021 Mowers, 1,090 Horse Rakes, 612 Harrows, 1,584
Cultivators,  1,056  Hay  Cutters, &c., m'd,  value,  $688,342 ; cnp.,
$206,000 ; hand.i emp., 290.
Bl'888 Foundries, 1; value of stock used, $12,400; value of Machinery and other castings m'd, $17,530 ; cap., $1,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Corsets of all kinds, manufactories of, 2 ; value of stock used, $10,014 ; dozen of Corsets m'd, 854 ; value, $16,807; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; £ emp., 50.	•
648	STATISTICS  OF  THE	[1865.
WORCESTER.	WORCESTER    Co.

Hoop  Skirts, eatablisnmeuts  for  the  m. of,  2 ; value  of  stock used,
$27,049 ; hoop skirts m'd, 32,344 ; value, $86,932 ; cap., $5,100 ; m. emp., 7; £ emp., 42.
Chemical Preparations, establishments for the m. of, 4 ; value of stock used,  $8,000 ; value  of chemical  preparations  m'd,  $12,000 ; cap.,
$4,000 ; hands emp., 6.
Organs, Melodeons, and Harmoniums, manufactoriea o.f, 2 ; value of stock   used,   $15,050;   Instruments   m'd,  503;  value,  $42,600 ; cap.,
$8,900 ; hands emp., 27.
Musical Instrument Manufactories, 1; value of- stock used, $2,000 ; Bross and German Silver Instruments m'd, 122 ; value, $10,500 ; cap., $4,000;  hands emp., 9.
Printing  and  Newspaper  Establishments,  9 ;  value   of   stock  used,
$81,635; number and name of newspapers and periodicals printed, (Worcester Spy, daily and weekly ; Evening Transcript, daily and weekly ; Worcester Palladium, weekly ; Worcester Directory, annually ;) value of newspapers and periodicals for the year, $134,350; cap., $5,500 ; books and pamphlets printed, 28,971 ; value of printing done on the same, $4,022 ; value of all other printing done, $82,1'0; cap., $16,000 ; m. emp., 43 ; £ emp., 14.
Bookbinderies, 5 ; value of stock used, $.5,450 ; value of bookbinding
done, $10,250 ; cap., $4,900 ; m. emp., 7 ; £ emp., 6.
Daguerreian and  Photographic Establishment., 9 ; value of  stock used,
$7,700 ;   daguerreotypes   and   photographs   taken,   115,000; value,
$26,000 ; cap.,   ,900 ; m. emp., 19 ; f. emp., 10.
Looking-Glasses and Picture Frame Manufactories, 3 ; value of stock used, $2,800 ; value m'd, $5,600 ; cap., $2,050; hands emp., 3.
Chronometers, Watches, Gold and Silver Ware and Jewelry, establish­ ments for the m. and repair of, 10 ; value of stock used, $2,080 ; value m'd, $12,500; cap., $4,650 ; m. emp., 16.
Brush Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $6,000 ; brushes m'd, 14,400 ; value, $14,000 ; cap., $5,000 ; m. emp., 9 ; f. emp., 9.
Saddles, Harnesses and Trunks, establishments for the m. of, 8; 884 Trunks, 736 Bags, 70 Valises, 100 Harnesses, and other small arti­ cles m'd, and repairs, value, $21,249 ; value of stock used, $9,500 ; cap., $8,350 ; m. emp., 23 ; £ emp., 1.
Upholstery Manufactories, 4 ; value of stock used, $7,400 ; upholstery m'd, $20,787 ; cap., $6,700;  m. emp., 10;  £ emp., 6.
Hat and Cap Manufactories, 5 ; value of stock used, $21,400; value of hats and caps m'd, $42,278; cap., $24,200 ; m. emp., 14; f. emp., 28•
•
1865.)	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	649
WoRcESTEB  Co.	WORCESTER,


Cordage Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $4,000 ; Hemp and Cotton Cordage and Lines m'd, value, $6,000 ; cap., $800 ; hands emp., 3.
Railroad  Cars, Coaches,  Chaises, Wagons,  Sleighs  and  other vehicles,
establishments for the m. of, 7 ; 84 carriages, 170 railroad cars, &e., m'd, value, $348,466; value of stock used, $199,697 ; cap.,$101,050; m. emp., 119 ; £ emp., 1.
Carriage Wheels, manufactories  of, 1; sets wheels  in'd, 2,500 ; value,
$27,500;  cap., $16,000 ; hands emp., 15.
Confectionery, establishments  for  the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used,
$6,389 ; lbe. of confectionery made, 26,572 ; value, $8,560; cap.,
$2,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; £ emp., 5.
Ink, Envelopes, and other articles of Stationery, manufactories of, 3; value of stock used, $104,750 ; Ink, &c., m'd, value, $6,000 ; Pen­ holders   m'd,  value,   $3,000 ;  88,000,000   Envelopes   m'd, value,
$142,000 ; cap., $87,500 ; m.  emp., 17 ; f.emp., 67.
Clothing, establishments for the m. of, 18 ; establishments for the m. of clothing  for women,  87 ; value  of  stock  used  for  men's clothing,
$169,200; value of clothing m'd, $275,997 ;  value  of clothing  m'd for women, not including stock,  $84,822 ; cap., $77,000; m. emp., 89 ; f. emp., 1,095;  £ emp. in making women's clothing, 185.
Coffee Mills, 2; value of stock used, $8,135 ; lbs. of coffee m'd, 29,868; value, $10,712 ; cap., $3,300 ; hands emp., 4.
llarble and other kinds of Stone, establishments for the m. of articles from, 7 ; value of stock used, $9,607 ; Marble Monuments, Head­ stones,  &e, and  Granite  Building  and  Cemetery  Work, value,
$81,455; cap., $14,300; hands emp., 48.
Tallow Candles, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used,
$24,000 ; value of Tallow rendered, not made into candles, $27,600 ; boxes of candles made, 850 ; Yalue, $6,000 ; cap., $8,500 ; hands emp., 5.
Soap, establishments for the m. of, 6 ; value of stock used, $6,850 ; bbls. of soft soap m'd, 1,850; value, $9,600 ; cap., $3,750 ; hands emp., 10.
Maater Builders, 29 ; Buildings erected, 60 ; value of buildings, and other work done, $888,250 ; value of the materials used, $178,850 ; hands emp., 241.	·
Blacksmith Shops, 14 ; value of stock used, $15,510 ; value of work done, $45,257 ;  cap., $12,650 ; hands  emp., 43.	·
.Arms, establishments for the m. of, 7 ; value of stock used, $86,500 ; 15,000  Revolvers, 1,500  Breech-Loading  Carbines,  8,000  Wesson's
82
600	STATISTICS OF THE	(18.
WORCESTER.	WOB0R8TBR  Co.

Breech-Loading Rifles, 700 Ballard's Breech-Loading Rifles, Allen's
Rifles, Pistols, &c., value, $449,777 ; cap., $227,000 ; m. emp., 828. Chairs, manufactorics of, 1; value of stock used, $18,000 ; Patent­ folding Chairs made,  15,000 ; value, $80,000 ; cap., $15,000;  m.
emp., 8 ; f. emp., 1.
Cabinet and Pattern Manufactories, 8; value of stock used, $8,150 ; value of cabinet ware and patterns m'd, $10,000 ; cap., $2,800 ; hands emp., 12.
Tin  and  Sheet  Iron  Ware  Manufactories,  10 ;  value  of  stock used,
$82,550 ; value of ware m'd, $59,112 ; cap., $20,400; hands emp., 29. Flouring  Mills, 3; bush.  Grain ground, 160,000 ; value,  $207,500 ;
cap., $18,000 ; hands emp., 7.
Tanning and Currying Establishments, 2 ; value of stock used, $j2,000 ; Hides  tanned,  1,000;  Leather  tanned   and  cunied,  $30,000 ; cap.,
$9,500 ; hands emp., 7.
Belting Manufactories,  2 ; value of  stock used, $88,000 ; value m'd,
$48,000 ; cap., $18,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Boots, pairs of all kinds m'd, 511,897; Shoes, pain of all kinds m'd, 661,288; value of stock used, $1,649,204; value of boot.a and ahoes m'd, $2,558,517 ; cap., $418,766 ; m. emp., 1,482; f. emp., 407.
Straw BoDDets and Hats, establishment.a for the repair of, 2 ; value of stock used, $850 ; value of the repairs  made,  $2,750 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 6 ; £ emp., 11.
Bric.k Yards, 2 ; bricks m'd, 2,800,000; value, $20,400 ; cap., $6,000 ;
hands emp., 30.
Cigars  m'd, val11e, $45,600 ; value of the stock  used,  $20,800 ; cap.,
$12,100 ; m. emp., 22 ; £ emp., 8.
Whip Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $800 ; value m'd, $2,000; cap., $800; m. emp., 2.
Blacking, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stoc.k used, $2,107 ; value of blacking m'd, $4,800; cap., $1,500; hands emp., 3.
Wooden Pumps, establishments  for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock  used,
$13;  value of pumps m'd, $75; hands emp.,  2.
Last Manufactories, 1; value of stock used, $4,900 ; pairs lasts m'd, 30,452 ; value, $15,500 ; cap., $10,550 ; hands emp., 12.
Wire Safes, Sieves, Dish-Covers, and other articles made wholly or in
part of wire, manufactories of, 4 ; value of stock used, $23,450; value m'd, $34,600; cap., $4,300 ; m. emp., 12 ; f. emp., 13.
Stone  Ware,  establishments  for  the  m. of,  1;  value  of stock  used,
$8,500 ; value of stone ware m'd, $10,000; cap.,  $7,000;  hands emp., 7.
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF •MASSACHUSETTS.
651
WoRcuua Co.	WORCESTER.
C,o&lns and Burial Casee of all kinds, manufactories of, 3; value of stock   used,   $5,700 ;  coffins  made,  2,228;   value,  $18,167 ;  cap.,
$7,750 ; m. emp., 11; f. emp., 4.
Planing Mills, 8 ; value of work done, $8,500; cap., $15,000 ; hands emp., 14.
Boxes, establishments for the m. of, 8; value of stock used, $15,600 ; value of Wooden Boxes made, $18,000; value of Paper Boxes made, $8,000 ; cap., $16,500 ; m.emp., 19 ; f. emp., 5.
Razor Strope, manufaetories of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; dozen m'd, 1,800; value, $4,800 ; cap., $2,000; m. emp., 1; £ emp., 6.
Gas, establiahments     for the m. of, 1; value of  stock used,  $25,926 ;
value of gas m'd, $55,589 ; cap., $208,521 ; hands emp., 18.
Ice for market, es&abliahments for the preeervation of, 1; tons of ice preserved,  8,000 ; value,  $7,000 ; cap., $14,000 ; hands  emp., 12.
Bakeries,  5 ; value  of  stock  used, $72,900 ; value  of Bread m'd,
$99,300; cap., $11,200 ; hands emp., 88.
Breweries,  1; value of  stock  used, $850 ; bbls.  of  Beer m'd, 100 ;
value, $600 ; cap., $100; hands emp., 1.
Stone and Marble Quarries, 2 ; value of Building Stone quarried and prepared for market, $11,500; cap., $2,500 ; hands emp., 12.
Saw Mills, 4 ; feet of Lumber  prepared  for market, 500,000 ; cap.,
$5,000 ; hands emp., 8.
Firewood  and  Bark  prepared  for market, cords, 485.
Farms,  S73;  acres, 17,824 ; value, including  Buildings,  $1,677,060 ;
acres of  land improved,  12,988 ; persona  emp., 471.
Woodland, acree, 2,692 ; value, $67,800.
Indian Corn, acres, 486 ; bush., 21,940 ; value, $21,940.
Wheat, acres, 16 ; bush., 256 ; value, $884. Rye, acres, 99 ; bush., 1,742 ; value, $1,742. Buckwheat, acres, 5; bush., 59 ; value, $44. Oats, acres, 867 ; bush., 12,280 ; value, $7,838. Millet, acres, 5 ; value, $535.
Potatoes, acres, 884. ; bush., 86,161; value,   $27,120.75.
Turnips  cultivated  aa  a  field  crop,  acres,  28 ;  bush., 5,568 ; value,
$1,890.75.
Onions, aeres, 2; bush., 490; value, $612.50. Carrots, acres, 7; bush., 2,778; value, $1,889. Cabbage, acres, 27 ;" value, $4,147.
Winter Squash, acres, 8 ; value, $948.
Market Gardening, acres, 70 ; value, $9,808.
652	STATISTICS •OF  THE
(1865.
WORCESTER.	WORCESTER   Co,
Beets and  other  esculent  vegetables,  acres, 18 ; bush., 8,512 ; value,
$1,756.
English  Mowing,  acres,  4,541 ;  tons  of  English  hay,  5,949; value,
$186,827.
Wet Meadow or Swale mown, acres, 608 ; tona of  wet  meadow  or swale bay,  611 ; value, $6,110.
Apple-trees eoltivated for their fruit, 86,754; value of apples, $16,850 ; apple-trees in yards and gardens, 5,125 ; value of apples, $1,288; Pear-trees cultivated for their fruit, 7,185 ; value of pears, $2,857 ; pear-trees in yards and gardens, 11,564 ; value of pears, $2,968 ; all other trees cultivated for their fruit, 1,818 ; value of fruit, $660 ; all other trees in yards and gardens, 8,891;  value of  fruit, $179 ; value of Nuts or Berries  cultivated  or gathered for market, $1,768; value of Nuts or Berries in yards and gardens, $8,555.
Sheep, 807 ; value,  $2,286 ; lbs. of Wool  produced,  1,200 ; value,
$900.
Horses, 897; value, $48,155 ; Oxen over four years old, 224 ; Steers under four years old, 100 ; value of oxen and steers, $27,157 ; Milch Cows, 1,180; Heifers, 806; value of ws and heifers, $78,192 ; gallona of Milk sold, 255,885 ; 'f'alue, $66,887.10 ; lbs. of Butt.er sold, 21,165 ; value, $6,849.50.
Pork, dressed, lbs., 85,171;  value,  $12,775.65.
Swine, 849 ; value,  $5,164 ;  value  of  Poultry  sold,  $2,049 ; value of Eggs sold, $2,785 ; lbs. of Honey, 215 ; value, $58.75.
Apple-Parers, establishments for the m. of, 1; number made, 25,000 ;
value  of  stock  used,  $6,000 ; value  of  products,  $10,000 ; cap.,
$1,600 ; m., emp., 7.
Barometers, establishments for the m. of, 1; number made, 750; value of stock  used,  $2,250 ;  value  of  products,  $8,750 ;  cap., $1,000 ;
m. emp., 8.
Baskets, establishments for the rn. of, 1; value of stock used, $75 ; value of products, $850 ; m. emp., 1.
Binders'  Shears, establishments  for  the  m. of,  1; number  made,  87 ;
value of stock used, $1,427 ; value of products, $4,919 ; cap., $4,000 ;
m. emp., 4.
Boot and Shoe Cutters, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; number made, 2,176 ; value of stock used, $4,500 ; value of products, $12,000 ; cap., $7,000 ; m. emp., 10.
Boot and Shoe Heels, establishments for the m. of, 1 ; value of stock used, $900; value of products, $1,800; cap., $500; m. emp., 2; r. emp., 8.	·
1865.]	INDUSTRY  OF MASSACBUSETI'S.
658

WoacaTu   Co.	WoaoaTER.
Boot and Shoe Patterns, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $440 ; value of stock used, $1,754 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 2.
Boot and Shoe Tools, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $472;  value of  products,  $2,450 ; cap., $1,800 ; m. emp., 8.
Boot  and   Shoe  Repairs,  establishments,  28 ;  value  of   stock  used,
$8,800 ; value of products, $26,066 ; cap., $8,760 ; m. emp., 41.
Card Setting Machines, establishments for the ·m.of, 4 ; number made, 47; value  of stock  used, $8,550 ; value  of  products, $28,800 ; cap.,
$2,400 ; m. emp., 12.
Cement Drain Pipe, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $250; value of products, $5,00 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp., 1.
Copying  Presses, establishments  for the m. of, 1; value of stock used,
$5,000; value of products, $10,000;  cap., $2,000 ; m. emp., 5.
Cotton Tape, Binding, &c., establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock, $800; value of products, $500 ; cap., $5,000 ; bands emp., 4. Daguerreotype Plates, Mats, &c., establishments for the m. of, 1; boxes Plates m'd, 19,084; gross Carte Portes m'd, 262 ; gross Mats,  &c.,
m'd,  28,260 ; value  of  stock used,  $87,466 ;  value  of products,
$64,752 ; cap., $8,600 ; m. emp., 16; f. emp., 10.
Dentists' Work,  establishments  for  the  m. of, .10 ; value  of products,
$19,800 ; cap., $5,550 ; m. emp., 16.
Dry  Hop  Yeast, establishments  for  the  m. of,  1; value  of products,
$6,000 ; m. emp., 5 ; f. emp., 2.
Engravings and Dies, establishments for the m. of, 5 ; value of stock used, $870 ; value of products, $5,800 ; cap., S2,500 ; m. emp., 6.
Fruit Wines, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; gallons m'd, 5,000 ; value of products, $7,500 ; cap., $8,000 ; m. emp., 4.
Gutters and Conductors, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; feet m'd, 88,646; value of stock used, $1,500 ; value of products,  $8,646 ; cap., $2,450 ; m. emp., 4.
Bair Work, establishments for the m. of, 8 ; value of stock used, $700 ;
value of products, $1,475 ; cap., $400 ; f. emp., 8.
Heel Irons, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $250 ; value of  stock used, $800 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp.,  1.
Hemmers, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $467 ; value of products, $4,823 ; cap., $6,000 ; m. emp., 8.
Hulled Corn, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $100 ; value of products, $500 ; m. emp., 1.
Machinery Jobe, establishments for, 9; Talue of stock used, $12,164 ; value of products, $89,037 ; cap., $15,800 ; m. emp., 77.
STATISTICS OF THE	[1865.
WORCESTER.	WOBCESTER  Co.

Melodeon and Organ Reeds, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $.5,500 ; value of products, $35,000 ; cap., $15,000 ; m. emp., 10.
Mouldings, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $5,000 ; value of products, $14,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 10.
Painting, Coloring, &c., establishments  for, 25 ; value of stock used,
$17,455; value of products, $40,780 ; cap., $10,950 ; m. emp., 58.
Paper and Calico Machinery, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $135,000 ; value of products, $195,000 ; cap., $60,000 ; m. emp., 115.
'Perforated Card and Metals, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $8,000 ; value of products, $6,389 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 2.
Plumbing Work, establishments  tor, 6 ; value  of  stock  used,  $14,240 ;
value of products, $28,850 ; cap., $2,700; m. emp., 12. Refrigerators, establishments  for the  m. of, 1; number  made,  100 ;
value of stock used, $600 ; value of products, $1,500 ; cap., $1,000;
m. emp., 2.
Revolving Clothes Frames, establishments for the m. of, 1; value  of Rtock used, $75 ; value of  products,  $350.
Saddlery Hanlware, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,050;  value of  products, $2,750;  cap., $950;  m. emp., 2.
Saw Repairs, establishments  for, 2 ; value of stock used, $375 ; value
of  products,  $1,400 ; cap., $200 ; m. emp., 2.	· Silver  Plated  Work, establishments  for  the  m.  of,  2 ; value   of stock
used, $450 ; value  of  products,  $2,800 ; cap.,  $600 ; m.  emp.  2 ; f.
emp., 4.
Skates, establishments for the m. of, 1; pairs m'd, 20,000 ; value of stock used, $2,800 ; value of product.a, $25,000 ; cap., $3,500 ; m. emp., 15; f. emp., 2.
Skate  Straps,  establishments  for  the  m.  of,  1; value  of stock used,
$5,500 ; value of prodv.cts, $8,920 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 8 ; f. emp., 6.
Spectacles, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,500 ;
value of products, $8,000 ; cap., $1,500 ; m. emp., 2.
Spindles, establishments for the m. of, l; number made, 70,000 ; value of stock  used,  $8,400 ; value  of products,  $24,500 ; cap., $6,000 ;
m. emp., 14.
Stairs  and   Balusters,  establishments  for  the  m. of, 3 ;  value  of stock
used, $1,700 ; value of products, $5,550 ; cap., $950 ; m. emp., 6.
1865.]	INDUSTRY OF MASSACHUSETTS.	655
WORCESTER  Co.	WORCESTER.

Steam Valves, &c., establishments for the m. of, 1; 100 Valves, 9 Steam Gongs, IO Pressure Regulators m'd ;. value of stock used, $1,000 ; value of products, $3,000 ; cap., $4,000 ; m. emp., 3.
Tripe, Neat's Foot Oil, establishments for the preparation of, I ; value of stock used, $12,500 ; value of products, $25,000 ; cap., $5,000 ;
m. emp., 10.
Trusses, establishments for the m. of, 1; value of stock used, $150 ; value of products, $600 ; cap., $100 ; m. emp., I.
Valentines, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $1,800 ; value of products, $6,000 ; cap., $2,500 ; m. emp., 2 ; f. emp., 23.
Wood Turning, establishments for, 1; value of stock used, $750 ; value of products, $3,000 ; cap., $500 ; m. emp., 3.
Wood-Working Machinery, establishments for the m. of, 2 ; value of stock used, $33,000 ; value of products, $107,200 ; cap., $38,000 ;
m. emp., 78.























•




















.A B S T R A C T	B Y	C O U N T I E S.

83
,
.0.







,......,
...

i:...



















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
i
;
ff.>



-



Cl)























<O.
"N'.
:g_
CT
'<
(';
0
....-
(v














•S..Not.2.	t N°'sl......
;
r'l




,..........,
QO
...
..:..,


















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a












See Note 8.	t No4 lllola41Dc	--led wllh Calleo or II DelalJM •labllaluneata.	i Po111141 of Thra4.
Ifll

0..).




BPOOL COTl'OlV	WOOLLBN.t
a	•	.,!,	i	!	g


Cl)
Cl)
NI
.al	s
•""	j
0	i f
C O U N TI ES.
S>	J	Ii
Q	.= "ii	8  .	:j
.	II :I	'8	t, "	3
..
'o !t	.. i	i " 9
...
'8 s J
:I	CD	'8	'8	'8	"ii	=	IQ  I
:p ..
o  S	:"	ll
'ii  I
1:	.. "I"	j l
o J I
f !	1
































0
<g:
ll.	a	I>-	Ill	...	0	loo
Barnstable,         .     -     -        -        -        -     -      2	s      61,621             154,000	-.
Berbhire,  •      .   -     -        -        -        -      -     28         151     4,124,132           5,484,994     ·  408,200
Bristol,     .  .	Mo,oooi	· 2		225,000	850,000	- Dukea,       .   .    -      -        -        -        -         -      1	1        8,000		4,000	- Essex,        .   .    4       267,306         584,582        534,613        120,000        260	35            S03     6,227,467         7,813,728         2,419,170
Franklin,  •	-      -        -         -        -        -      7	15               284,000	491,475	-
Hampden,  .     .    1     483,732         457,706t       503,476       600,000      315	20	60     1,497,766          2,229,656	-
Hampabire,        .   -     -       -        -       -     -    13	41      931,850              1,126,269	85,000
Middleaex,  •       .    -     -      -        -        -      -     80         198         6,809,188          6,722,050      807,000
Nantucket, •       .     -     -        -         -        -      -      -      -     -         -         -
Norfolk,     .        -     -        -        -        -       -    10	65     1,407,000          2,058,000	-    rn
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
Plymouth,   •	1	82,000	-	129,000	85,000	75	2	12	298,000	803,600	-
Suffolk,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	-	-	-	-
0	Worcester, •	. -
-	-	-	-	-	- -
67-
296	6,921,059	8,736,524	238,832
Totals,	.	9	'865,538	- • tl,336,089	'990,500	867	218	1,157     28,790,078	'35,374,296	8,467,702

r-,
00
•11ee l!fow f.
t S.1'oet 6.
i»-.
•
....
0g0
..:...









.
I
cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a	co
















































0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0

..
'S







Essex,	.	. 183,172

















(,<



g  e Ii .s





II	J

.. ..

!i

8



2



848

1,652


O> O>














:
·
I
r.­...
00























cg
N.

er
'<
(';
a

Q.D.
...
t00



ij
;
?J


1
-
0)



C7)
C7)
C7)


















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
ij
I?l
,.-...,
00
•S.. Noe. 7.	t POIIIICII.
 		,._
00

i..:....

















<,Ci..
N.
CD
Q_
CJ"
'<
C"')
0
........
rv


























·-· -

















-	--
-

Irn
-



Cl'> Cl'> 00


























0
<,gr:
(I)
a.

(;
0
....-
(v
















•S.No&e tl.	t 11N No&e 10.	i PaJn Socu.	llhlrta, Drawen Mid llocu.
00







Ii]J
.......,
Cl'>
?


B08IEBY-Contlnuecl.	B.lLIIOllAL   811:UlTS,•
....
00
O>
..:c....n.,
I"i  -2 j 	i
!t	1...
,.I.
i	j	I
i	!1	t	..
C O U1'T I E8,
"' ,, s
a	I	i:1 :i
CII
'S	.a
5
'lS	- ..	B.,
I	.. ".,	'lS
'S 'a
'lS	- ..	!
i	i	.,
§ .s	I
o .B..
= i	I a	..	.a
g B  Ei .!:
"	0 3
'ii	.B::	0  :a	'ii  "	;":
3	B..















o0·
aN..
CD
Q_
cr
'<
Po,	)II	z	i,..	z	,,i	"'
Barnstable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	25	f 656,786	308,503 fl,139,622	'316,900	298	195
Bristol,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	-	-	-
Essex,	.	.	10,000	-	-
Franklin,    .	.	-	-	,2,000
Hampden, .		-	-	2,000 Hampshire,	.	-	-	3,000
Middlesex, •	4.8,000	'24,000	217,000	73	66	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, .	-	-	-	1	200	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	30,000	60,000	118,000	73	117	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  •	.
Suffolk,	.
Worcester, .


·ii,.
td
00


ij
I!12
C;	Totals,    .	108,000
111-1,000  I ,u1,ooo	244  I  529    I

35  ,1,291,130  I	732,987   12,049,007	f461,971
----
459	553
O>
......
ro
See Noia J.i.	O>
•


WOOLLEN- ConclwlecL	,.,
a,
.a..,.
..	g	t B	I
&  8  Ill  s	I	!9 1	1, !1
j	ol	!e i	•
.I,   !... .s	s e "'	t .a	•	11
C O U1'T l lt 8.
""   t,)   a	f!i
.. ..	.. ...
11	Ill	'S
.; "' B	5	'S
= .e
•..
1::
=	g e 1 i 6	=	i	J J
'a	'S .s'
'S a
.....	.I>.-
a ,: a	;:	o  - D    Q	;:
II	iU1

0 ...
,= e














cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
""	<II	Ill
Barnstable,	.	-	-	-	-	11,000	'22,000	-	'23,400	19	8
Berkshire,  •	. 330,346	t146,963	-	-	-	-	-	2,353,000	1,634	1,207 Bristol,	.	.	-		-	-	-	-	.,	-	200,000	112 		 69
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	-	1,130	2,260	-	6,000	2	2
Essex,	.	. 133,172	711,631    58,283   1145,710	198,000	180,000	'487,572	2,941,512	2,060	2,543
Franklin,  .	.	-	-	-	-	4,050	4,875	400	106,000	128	121
Hampden, .	.	-	-	-	-	8,337	5,864	259,846	579,698	416	848
Hampshire,.
Middle.ex, .	.
Nantucke', .	.
Norfolk,	.	.
Plymouth,   •	.
Suffolk,	.	.
Worcester, •	.
Totals,    .	.








b:!
Irn
r.-..­.
Cl)
,...
00
t
L..I



















cg
N.

CJ'
'<
(';
a
e
I9'J

i



Cl)
Cl)
Cl)






:


:I)
cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a

1	,--,
00
•S.l'1ote 7.	t POIIIMII.








O O U lt T I E B,
...
t
..:....i









I
<,Ci..
N.
CD
Q_
CJ"
'<
C"')
0)
0)
........
rv



O">
e'>
a>


























0
<,gr:
(I)
a.

(;
0


...-
(v	•S.Not.ell.	t S.Mole lO.	ll'aln llocu.	I Bhlrta, Drawen a.ocl Bocu.
00
1-3

Q
I
,.......,
a>


B08IEBY--OonUnnecl.
..	BA.LllOBAL  811:mTB,•
....
00
:"a  g j	..
i	'i
:.0..
.J,
!	i
..:...,
C O U N TI J:8,
'!' .s	g
u 'O
...	s
!	..a.
!i	t
...
..
'o	.5
'.o.
'o  .I.
...
e	1:1 :i
!	a
a..,.
I	'o  I
'o
'll.	a
!
a	... ..	0
'o 'a
i 5 i t:-	a
.s	..	o ."..
J Ii	..
i s	e
g a a
"'
a :s
.a.        z0  ;a 	1
z9 a
!	a :s	a..
"'

























0
<,gr:
Barnstable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, •	-	-	-	-	-	25	1656,786	308,503  tl,139,622	'316,900	298	1
Bristol,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Esaex,	10,000	-	-	30	60	4	149,630	92,066	'246,633	49,071	83	1
Franklin,	.	-	-	'2,000	1	8	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	-	-	2,000	2	s	2	6,240	4,080	10,280	4,000	6
Hampshire,	.	-	-	3,000	1	10	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	4.8,000	'24,000	217,000	73	66	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket,.	-	-	-	1	200	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	80,000	60,000	113,000	73	117	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-




Irn



(I)
a.
Suffolk,	.
-	-	-	-	-

1	128,000	47,968	191,872	80,000	19	1
Worcester, .	60,000
(;	-
100,000
-
80,000
-
63 -
75	3	851,080	280,370	460,600	62,000	103
-
2:oo
0	Totals,   .	108,000	$174,000	6!17,000
-
244

529	35 ,

1,201,1so     1

732,987  t2,049,007	'461,971

459
-
Ii ,S
 	-	a:,
a:,
...-
(v
See Mole li.
(C)



0

















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
I9l
,.....,


BUD  lirrB AND  BEAD  DBE88ES.•	FEATHERS AND ABTIFICUL  rLOWEJI&
...
t	...	i I	..	I	1
1	..	i
...
I	1	!
..	'il	I
l	1	·,.d..
C O U N TI E S.	i	"'	!Q..........	i	..
..
I	fl	"'	i	..	t'	i
a
..	•	.a
' "8	.a	a	I	0
o  a	"8
.!ii	a	I
0 'C
:'i 	0
il	:i i J	"	i
o S	.a •	.; = a
0•.	a	o  S
IL	.a	l•
.
.a..,

Barnstable,
z	>	z	c..,	::ii	z	>	Cl	>	c..,	II
-	-	-	-	-·	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Eesex,	.	.	6  152,800	86,758	1105,500	'300	10	101	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket,.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
0	Plymouth, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-






b:j
<g:
;;;·
(0
Suffolk,	.	.	5  85,400    118,250	54,000	22,500	15	08	1	11,000
t	'3,000    ,1,000	-	1
a.	Worceater, •	. -
-	-	-	-	-	----.-
-	-	..	-	-	-	:..   -
C')
0
Totals,   .	.	11

188,200  j  155,003
8159,500   822,800	25	109	1	81,000	-	13,000	11,000  .   -	18
Bee Note 16.	t IA41el' J'e&thal.
"..I.





C O U N T I E S.	li	CD


BUOLE  TBIIIIKINGI!,
;s:l	.I.. 	I
,.
t	a..	j









CD    •

JET  PINS,  &o.•
...
" .;
1!1



.,;
i
c,:,
,.
1
:..i.i  ....
o S
'a
:: 1
b f
.,   -
c u
"::
::l
s
.a.
:=i

!	I
,:
'a	t-	I
;, ,:
Cl
'.a.
!
::l
0	!
0 ,:
:..
:,e
Cl
li ¥ i?
"'






















0
<,gr:
(I)
a.

(;
0

Barnstable, Berkshire, • Bristol, Dokes, Essex, Franklin, Hampden, . Hampshire, Middlesex, • Nantuckt, . Norfolk, Plymouth, Suffolk,
Worcester, .








1	13,000  I 25,000  1,12,000  I ta,ooo	20 	80
s   ,19,000	'55,000  I114,000	45
80 -
Irn
I	----J	!------,---,---
...-
(v
Totals,    •
1  I ta,ooo  1  25,ooo  \ 112,000 I e.1,000	20
80	s	119,000	to5,ooo 1 1u,ooo	45
80 ,.......,
OD
l!ee Note 18.
W'OBl'RD DIIU8 BKAme, a	LDID.,•.



CXI
w
, 0	I..I."0	..	a
u	..	:. a	..
C O U:N TIJ:8.	II
..	... 'S a	..;.
...	i	al	'2 ..
f	j..
.A '	I
I	11
:d	i	j
0 ...i	I
;j	ii	I	0	3	..
I	5	0	0

.; S
!ii
....	a
!	'S II
il	... "
•..
If.	;!	Cl
;:	0•
:ic	'
a	•   i,..	If.	;:
Barnstable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, •	.	-		-		-	-		-	-	-	-		-		-		- Bristol,		.	2	1811,000	410,ooot   '411,000	t115,000	18	40	1	'210,648	1,216,464	t272,900 Dukes,	.	.	-		-		-	-		-	-	-    -      -         -         -
Eaez,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	225,000	286,000	-
Hampehire,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middleiiez, •	.	1	8,778	4,62	9,240	700	-	2	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norlolk,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	280,000	1,700,000	198,000
0	Plymouth, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
I
irn
<,gr:
(I)
Suffo' lk,	4	74,500

3000§1
119,000	51,000	10	90	-	-	-	-
a.	Worcester,.
--	-	-	 	-	-- -
-	1	200,000	2,000,000	800,000
(;
0
...-
(v
Total!,    .	6	1394,278	-	I 1539,240  I 1166,700	23	132	6	1915,648	5,151,464	'770,900
0)
S..No&.20.	t »-a.	PO'lllldl.	• Arllalll.	.





C O U N T I ES.

'll	;i
LIIIEN-conUnaed.	8ILL
a	..
If.
s
.. ,I
i	I	t
a	f	I
!:	'I '!I	l	I	1
'o  a	.9	iii.	..	..
.:.I
.s..	I
.9	a	•
'll	-d
.a.
I	:II .	0	ii
'o	.a.	I
i.:...	•!
I	iii
'cf
1	...
0..
il	.. ...	3
iii
f!
"'	iii
.a.	oS
0 ;j	"	g If	" =	a	I	a
(:I	I>	I;,)	:I!	...	,i	>	"'	I>	"" -	I>	I;,)	II
" w	•
iii	'ii	iii ..	•	'ii	t
Barnstable,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berbhire,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	.	-	-	'400,000	95	119	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
E.ex,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,  .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	-	-	-	60	100	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampt!hire,.	-	-	-	-	-	s	1325,000	-	-	84,500   1443,000  ,120,000    45	16
:Middlesex, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
0	Nantucket, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
I
=
Itzl
<g:
;;;·
Norfolk,	.	. 550,000•   '225,000	165,000	112	240	2	107,500
-	-	9,030	154,000	85,000	9	ll 5	VJ

(0
a.
!Z
C')
Plymouth,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Suffo' lk,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
0	Worcester, .	.	-	-	100,000	100
-75	-
.-	-	-	-	-	-	---
Totala,    .	. 550,000	'225,000	'665,000	877	634	5	'482,500	-	-	43,680  1597,000  1155,000   M 20
Po1IIICla.
,....,
0""0"

C O U llTJ JIII.	t








Ill


BOBlRT J&IBBO.NL	BZLT J&IBBOllL
l	l	{	.f	i	I	J	I	i
....
00
..:...
:ii II	'a
!1	i	ii	i
I	J	!1
'a	b
!
i	1	!	ii	1	3	1





























0
<,gr:
Ill	loo	loo	g	i	loo	a	:	g
Barmtable,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berbhire, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Brinol,  .  '	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dues,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Ellex,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Frankina,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, ,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bampehire,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middleaex, ,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantaol.et, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	119,798	56,000   '82,800    '27,000	7 	28
Plymouth, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	- .	--	-	-	-








t=
If/J
(I)	Su8o' lk,	.	2	'880,000	'550,000	'22,000	85	180	-	-	-
-	-	-
a.	Worceeter, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
(;
0
...-
(v
Totala,    .	.	2	1380,000	f550,000	'22,000	85  -1-

2	fl9,798	56,000   '32,800  '27,000	7	28






















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
0




C O U N T J J:8.




Bamatable,'	.
Berbhire, •	.
Bristo),	.	.
Dukes,	.	.
Eaeex,	.	.
Franklin,  ,	.
Hampden,  •	.
Bampehire,.	.
Middleaex,·•	.
Nantucket, •	.
Norfolk,	.	.
Plymouth,  •	.
Suffo' lk,	.	.
. .





i'Sll "C


Ill ..!..!
I	I...


'S	'S	'S
1 S a i	3  I


ill


I'sll   -
i

0,















I
If/l
Worcester, .
a	Tot.all,   .	.
flM,500	70	188	85	'6,828,184
a.. sot. aa.
500,000
,.......,
O>






C  O tJITIJ:11.


BOLL111G .AllD IILl'ITDIG JIILLB-OoDtlDMCl.	WIBlL
!1	I	I	1t	l	i	,lo	I	I	i	,;
....
00
&.'. I
'S j
'S	I	'S	'S	e	I
1I	i	I	a	'.S.,,:	= 1	:a ..	i	i	I	!
,.	..
l a	i
'"'	r:!	11!1	Cl	'"'	g

























0
<,gr:
(I)
a.
Barnstable,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Ber .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Briatol,	7,929	1949,000	'625,000	977	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	ij
Essex,	-	-	10,000	10	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	-	-	-	-	2	fl77,000	628•	'854,000	tl62,000	66	-
Hampshire,	.	-	-	-	-	2	6,000	23	9,500	7,500	i	-
Middleeu,.	681	133,300	68,500	95	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	.	2,975	578,000	415,000	486	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth, •	.	6,106	781,862	608,800	551	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
BuJrolk,	.	.	-	-	600,000	650	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
(;	Worcester,.	-	800,000	500,000	475
5    1,056,000	5,092	1,682,700	660,000
--
694	40
0
...-
(v
Totall,	17,591	13,237,162	82,827,300	8,194	9   11,289,000	5,743    12,046,200	f929,500	694 	40
 	-	
•r-

.
WROUGHT moN.	PIO moN.•
C01J ll TI Jt 8 ,	I
..i..
e...•.,s..i
"'Soil= .,
i1r•'o1
,I.
i	i	J
.i.	i
'S	'S
•a
...
I
i
'S	:i	'So il ;	j
I	J	'S	!
u•	0	ii
Ill	>	!
Bal'DNhle,
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	- .	-	-	-	-











cg
N.

CJ"
'<
Berbbire, .	.	1	'5,000 .	150	'15,000	110,000	15	7	'467,023	18,292	'726,620	'688,200	1  5
Briltol,	.	.	1	15,000	150	25,000	20,000	10	-	-	-	-	-	-
Due,,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Eaeu,	.	.	84	7,650	162	12,600	8,500	18	-	.	-	-	-	-	-
Fruklin,   .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	27,000	-	-	9,000	-
Hampden, .	.	1	15,000	800	.ooo	16,000	10	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampe	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middleeeit, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucke&, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	8	101,600	920	291,500	92,000	7l	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth, •	.	'1	468,068	2,900	748,275	107,000      812	-	-	-	-	-	-
Suffolk,	.	a	90,000	1,050	168,000	28,000	80	-	-	-	-	-	-

IVJ
(';
0
worceeier, •	. ----
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
a	Totals,    .	.	50	'697,818	6,682	1,810,875	27.1.,5.0.0...6.H	8	M&t,828	18,292	'726,690	t&f7,200	1,28G
,......,
;co
BOLLO'W'  W'.A.U  .ult> 0.&.8TDIO&•	ITDL.	.- 	i
C O U:llT J ES,	J	•
1,	•I..	i
.I.	l
..	ii	a	i
I	'; J•	i 1	J	a	I
i	s,,.	!	J	,g	s,,.	!	u	J
Barnstable,	.
Berkahire, •	.
-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	.	16	885,094	4,875	647,520	250,oQO	441	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	-	-	-	-
:Eau,	.	.	8	206,100	2,718	298,527	108,000	lM	1  t21,1QS	292	'87,600	t200.ooo	100
Franklin,  .	.	2	9,000	160,100	28,500	6,000	19	-	-	-	-	-	-
6	203,800	2,480	276,800	71,000	108	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, •
-	-	I
Bampehire,	.	2	18,000	850	88,000	8,000	18	-	-	-	-	-	-



cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
Middluex, .
Norf'olk,	.
f lymoutb, • Suffolk,	.
Worceater, •
Totala,   •

....
-	-
-	-
-	-
-	-
-	-
'200,000	100
fll





5


...
COTTOlf Gllfl.	COTTOlf, WOOLl&lf, ill> O'lBD XACBDIDT.	g
C O U N TIE8.	..	!
f	3	i
I	l:I	1	t i	i
..;
:I	"S	1
.a	l!I
0
0 •
i:	.
.;  s	!
i	il
=	j	i	._  C	ii	3	!
Ill	I>
0 ..
:,.
























0
<g:
N.
co
Q.
!l
C"')
rnatable,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berbhire,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-
iatol,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-
il:911,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-
,ex,	-	-	-	-	-	-
imklin,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	21,500	86,000	ll,000	26
impden, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	5,000	50,000	80,000	60
impahire,	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	14,000	29,000	22,000	20
ddlese:a:, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	20	495,858	1,143,M7	642,632	918
111tucket, •
,rfolk,	.	.
rmouth, •	.
ffolk,	.	-	-	-	-	-
orcester,.	-	-	-	-	-

0
......
(v
Totals,   .	.	8	186,200	8,072	1198,000	1116,000
-
';:J
(D
?A

JliCBINE AND llAlfD CABD8.•	.
....
QO
C O U N TI E S.	I	..
I	id
at'	a
j	1	4	ja	1	,a
.:, J"I	t	I s	'a	11	'o	I	I


0 ..
:: l	11	....
o	B	=	I	!	1
o II
=	:	i C,)	:
i	"'	0	"'
Barnstable,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	.	-	-	"':'	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Euex,	.	.	2	flOl,878	-	-	78,866	1157,221	'42,000	21	6
Franklin,  .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	.	1	15,000	24,000	'2,000	8,400	17,200	10,000	5	8
Hampebire,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middleaes, •	.	1	88,000	15,000	8,500	81,000	64,000	80,000	7	4
Nantucket, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	.	1	86,000	-	-	22,576	47,423	15,000	8	2
Plymouth,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
cg	Suffolk,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-



ij

I?l



CJ"
'<
Worceeter,  .	.	13	314,0-13---
45-5-,664 -
162,662
--37-4-,192 -
7.U,368	805,000	152	24
(';
0
Tot.all,  .	.	18	'504,886	494,664	f l68,162	514,688	f l,027,207	'402,000	193	89
a	•See Note 88.
....


=

t




8
cg	I
N.


CJ"
'<
(';
a




• ..ua........., w. LLu40ou. a. L-	U14NlllldDcalldolla llllUl'_ lla4,_..............	t  .........




r;i
f , ...

IOYTDI,	.A.17GUB8,  BITB,  .d'D ann.wn.•
f	i	!1
,...
00

..:..,
§	•	,i	I	of
C O V ITIBS,	II	•
)1	I	!	l	II
'S	'S	.s	• II	'S	I
a	= 1	i	J	'S I	11	=	J
i!	s,,.	It	i
!'	i!
i



•







0

;;;·
(0
Barnatable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berbhire, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Briatol,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Eaaex,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	125,876	269,465	'75,225	41-
Hampden, .	.	1	'4,890	1,087	tll,957	120,000	10	-	-	-	-	-
Bampebire..	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
ldiddleaex, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymonth, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	1,500	2,850	8,100	8
Sutrolk,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
<g:
a.
!Z
C')
0
Worceater, .	.	8	25,170	6,200	50,520	52,000	42	1	11,000	292,000	4,500	86
Totala,  •	.	4	'30,060	7(287	t62,477	t72,000	52	5	'38,816	564,315	'82,825	70
•a.••n. 	I


!

















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a


















•Lee 414 IMK n'11nl Dumber ot 4-III IIIIMII,	t Bollla&e4.	i 014 Alll n-ou&.
al





Ifll
r.-.,.


KECR.A.Nl08' TOOLS.•	CUTI.DY,
!. j i	...	I	j	j	I J	I
,...
OD

L..J

C O U N T I ES.	.. l! "o 11
!	i	:a	..

:,I
;: j a	"s	.fl	,	"s	I	a
I	f j f	= 1	I	,a!!   .
"& 11	ii
;::: H	!	,!!
C,	:	u
II	r;,.	It


































0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
Barnstable,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Briatol,	.	.	126,241	,18,611	,17,500	67	5	'5,200	'45,400	121,800 	87
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Eaaex,	.	.	-	-	-	-	1	250	425	800	2
Franklin,   •	.	51,000	26,000	18,000	56	10	898,000	882,861	415,000	744
Hampden, .	.	146,104	82,059	105,400	111	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,.	.	28,800	19,600	15,250	15	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	.	89,886	12,000	19,800	87	4	2,lOQ	8,147	5,800	15
Nantucket, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	.	87,000	18,000	10,000	25	1	22,000	70,000	25,000 	70
Plymouth, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Suffolk,	.	.	484,875	267,500	HS,500	196	1	2,500	5;000	2,000	2
Worcester,.	-	-	-	-
Totala,    .	.	1763,856	1383,770	1328,950	. 497

·
I
Ifll
0
leelfot.140.


&
Cl






I
I!'ll
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
-	,......,
00
t lf0$1tat114.


LOCU.	T.A.OU .um BUJ>I.
...
j	it	...	..
i.:...,
,i
'a	'S i	...
I	u	i	'S	'a	1	'a	I
C O lJ JI T I E B ,
l - ...
j J	f
a	... s
J...
ill	g	1	I


0 l:
c1 S
::l l
Ii	..
i
I...
;	1	il
.. i9	!
i
i	iC
a	r;,.	!	a
Ill	r;,.
t.)	)II













<,Ci..
N.
CD
Q_
CJ"
Barnstable,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berbbire, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bl,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	8	'454,867	2,446	'666,506	'313,000    162     67
Dukea,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,   •	.	1	,15,000	6,291	tM,847	'24,000     80	·-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, • .	.	2	4,000	8,000	6,000	1,500      25	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middleeu,.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	24,000	118	83,150	7,000	10	2
Nantucket, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	10,560	62	24,000	6,000	25	-
Plymouth,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	12	811,236	1,536	528,210	156,000	87     16
Suffolk,	.	.	1	800	8,240	1,200	250	1	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Worcester, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	12,800	91	28,000	5,000	5	-
t

I?l
'<	--	-
C"')
0
........
rv
Tot.ale,    .	.	4	119,300	12,531	f61,547	f25,750	56	24	tUS,468	4,248  11,269,866	'489,000     289	85

I

















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a














...	48.	t »-n :rora.	* 11-.llboftlll llDll s,.dtl,	f  :0...a-.
I ID	JIIAllaflelorJ ID Kortbamptoll mllllr.tll &N made & !upponloD of	,..	• 400 dlaD l'oru 17 dGaD 11u111.
I
IflJ
,.-..,.
CX>
?
....
00
......


















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a	• w..	t :00.u Sc7&u 811&1.ba and Baul.	i Variou.	t 860 Uowiu& Machlnel, 1,000 Guden Baul and B-,206 &a,maten.	I O&DDo tell,
00
1-3
r!
ij
I

0)
00
co



IRON  RAILING,  l'ENCES  AND SAFES.

llETAL SHEATHING
..

l'OB VB88ELII.

c:,)
,i	'a	s	5	,:I

C O U N T I E S.
..!...
I	11	1..	b
"8   0 S ,:j	..
1..	a
0	"'	I B
5	"..'
0	.a	s
"'	'o	'o  i	.a	e•
i	..o.• ..•.
t- =8                                                           ;5	..
;:	i
s	r.,,..  "



c:11
"
r,,.	a
0	!j
!a	.a
0 ,::
I
:5i>t.I.. -	,3
ai    o ca
0	0
Barnstable, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	;;
Berkshire, Bristol, Dukes, Essex, Franklin, Hampden, Hampshire,
Middlesex,
•	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
1	,1,200	fl,800	,1,000	8	1	'582,146	1,670,930*	f601,772	fl300,000	100
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
.	2	2,700	4,200	800	5	-	-	-	-	-	-
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	...	-	-	-	-
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
•	.	2	20,600	50,800	20,800	21	-	-	-	-	-	-

00
1-3


.
;

<,Ci..
N.
Q_
Nantucket,. Norfolk,
P
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	rn
-	-	-	-	-	1	287,824	1,182,000	852,888	50,000	40
CD

CJ"
'<
C"')
lymouth,  •
Suffolk,
9	47,550	129,500	62,800	81	-	-	-	-	-	-

0
........
Worce11ter, •	-	-	-
-----
-	-	-	-	-
----
---
-00
Totals,	14	'72,050	1186,800	'84,900	110 	2
rv
POUDcb.
'819,970  I 2,802,980	'954,610
'350,000	140
,--,


OOPPJUL•	BUJl8  r<>UllDDD.
....
00
i	j	i
,l	1g 'd	,l
1	..
-• 1•

a:_,
C O U bl T J ES.	a .



II)
I	1 l I	I
I	s.'.
"'	at	t

,=I
;;,
'S	9 1
'S	i b S	'S	.e
.a.
...	'S	... ;	a
     	'S 'C
:	I ;s	.a.	3
t.>
o II
a
t.>	J
---
a	J l	J s	:
!i	:
i	:5	i
Barnstable,	.	..,.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	2   f l,506,078    2,283   f l,994,886    835,465t  1300,886	600,000	240	6	'41,150    ,102,823	'28,450	'3
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	8	42,918	52,954	12,500	4
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	,	-
l"1
Hampden,  •	.	1	40,800	-	-	84,oooi	57,600	8,500	12	8	227,000	908,000	285,000
Hampshire,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	75,000	150,000	50,000
Middlesex, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	6	1,116,249	1,851,772	256,369
Nantucket, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	1	617,653    1,168	864,800	-	-	143,275	70	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	4,262	27,807	5,000
cg	Suffolk,	10	-	-	-	§	832,000	101,000	100	18	461,250	609,800	156,600

420
60


rn
4
,6


CJ"
Worcester, .	-1--------- ----
1,50011	7,500 '	8,000	8	2	21,400	82,530	7,500	0
-
'<
(';
0
Tols,
15  12,164,531   3,451  ,2,859,686	-	1697,986    1855,775	425	85  11,989,229   '3,285,186   '801,419	7
a	• See Not.63.	f Jl&n 1111d Bo1t1.	t Pound,.	f PDmpt, Plpea aad Soda J'oanl&IIII,	I  Ooppv PD1Dp1.
....
,


0)
<Q
NI























0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0














Anloltl.	t Ko& lta&ed.














i Arllolel of ware.














t B,rtn191.	I i.mp1and Teapotl.	11 HIiiei, 188j fllnaltl, 148.
I
,.-.,.
?























cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a

.
j





















•See lfo&e 67.	t IWal.	i Vt1r. Iff17.	f JICln, DO$ elated.
....
0)


i.:..,

,.
I?l
-
m


C,
..

I;;
5

cg
N.


CJ"
'<
(';
a






•:00.u.

,......,.
(X)


,
BOOP BltIBT&-Ooa.	OL.UB.
.....	:I	::11	l	l
...
'-'
'	I	l
.....	i
!	I	I
...
C O U N T I E S.
.a	I
a	ll
's J od
.....	e
3	!	i	'a
b 0 5	'a	.,.:i:1 ..	'8
.a	e
a•	§
;:  . l U	;
a	!	a
!	0 'C	il
;I   ..  !	•a	;:	3 	I
-	-u---
.:	:o,;  S
s,..
0
& "'
i:l	II
Barnstable, •	·I
-	-	.-	2	'311,000	-	-	t	'640,000	'527,000	590	-












cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
Berkshire, •	• I	-	-	-	8	77,000	1,500,000•   fll8,000	-	20,000	120,000	1so·	-
Bristol,	.	'6,200	4	46	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukee,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Ellex,	.	.	4,000	-	7	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,  .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden , .	.	12,000	4	18	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampehire,	20,860	16	41	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •
Nantucket, . Norf'olk,
Plymouth, • Suffolk,	.
Worcetter, .
Totals,	186,825	49	868	17    f l,221,800	1,500,000	1118,000	-	'2,418,250    11,729,000    1,968	52
.....&.	t 27,000 paobpl Colored J'llat, aad 20,000 paobpl Plale.	l '1'ou Tablt Wan aDd 1-JI.

Irn

<1>
<D
C1I

C,
co
STA.ROIL	CBEJUC..&.L PllPA.BATIONS.	C,
...
,";
.s..	J t 1	;
:d	i	s
e !l	i
C O U N T I E S.	!,
"...'	"...' :.,,., "..'	's
1	-a.	i
"'	,fl  ;:I   ..	:..
0	o t	.9	!	.a ll
...	's G f
.a.
II	i a	.:. "	.3. 1!14' 9
II
o s	= l
1 a l
:-;  I
3-•a.
,3	-a e
i	i	,3
Ill	114	I>-	t.)	=	I>-	I>-	t.)	=
Barnstable, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,   •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	127,500	,so,ooo	115,000 	15
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	.  -	-	-	-	-	-
Easex,.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	69,780	116,962	101,600	27
Franklin,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden,  .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bampehire, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	1	t12,600	180,000	tlS,000	tl0,000	5	12	408,160	655,081	. 232,600
. 83
Nantucket,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
0	Norfolk,	.	.	2	66,000	l,OM,400	90,528	50,000	21	1	30,000	50,000	15,000	6
cg
N.	Plymouth,  •
.	-	-	-	/
-	-	-	-	-	-	-
CJ"
'<
Suffolk,	.	-
-	-	-
-	-	2	101,200	122,000	52,500	19
(';
Worcester,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	4	8,000	12,000	4,000	6
0	-------	-- --	--
a	TotaJ.,	.	.	3	'78,600    1,234,400	108,528	60,000	26	22
'644,640 .986,033	'420,500	156	-
-
PAP&a COLLABII roa LADIES AND OENTLEIIIU'I.	PAPBL•
...	"cl ,!,	1	i	...

QI)
C O U N T I ES,	..	I
=
..	%
s	..
=
1-,1
i
!	•g
."..'.
!	•g
!I 'a
0	::i  e f!	"o
.9	e	..	::II    .	"o  9	"o
0 'C	..
... .. ..
::
3	I	i	's
a a	.,	l
•    0	,"II..
J S !	,I
a..
s	0    8	:":	!!
z0   ..
00
>	I>-	Q	::II	11w	"'


























0
<g:
N.
Q.
00  Barnstable,	-		-		-		-		-	-	-	-	-		-		- Berkshire,  .	 1	tl8,000	300,oooi	'30,000	,s,ooo	 3	12	41	8,469  tl,808,654	.731 Bristol,	-		-		-		-		-	-	-	1		380	23,834		-
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	8	6,770	520,070	2,279
Franklin,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	2	45,463	5,201,780	63,026	18,000	4	27	10	3,649	1,192,173	-
Hampshire,.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	12	1,515	146,170	130
Middlesex, .	-	-	-.	-	-	-	-	13	3,635	302,500	582
Nantucket, •	.	-		-		-	-	-	-		-	-		-		- Norfolk,	.	lt	2,000	167,000	3,300	2,000		5		18	4,103	520,586	1,055 Plymouth,  •	.	-		-		-	-		-	-	-	2		368           21,684          - Suffolk,              .    4         101,297          11,197,660             178,035               315,500             13            84            1         -          -      -
-	-	-	-	-	-	-


00
1-3



Irn
co	Worcester, .
!l
----------	---12   --5,276-	846,000	300
C"')
0
......
(v
Totals,	.	8	eIG0,7GO	10,866,440	e274,361	t340,500	25	141	118	34,165   t5,38J,671	5,077
BeeNot. el.	t Tbll lltllblllhmeDI bu bem Ill operalloll bal -montla.	i Oenu• Colian.




Cl)
".....'.



.. ..















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a














•a.m,, u4 691tou.	t Paper llallpap.
IflJ
,-...,.
QI)
?'



CABD PA.PER, C.&.BDS AND BODBT PAPER.	OBGA.511, KELODl':OlD  Aim   BilM01'1UK8,
...
0g0
j	.i.
i	t	·;	:4	ii	,:I	...	4
L.J
C O U!l"T I E B.	.0
Ill
..
r;,	·.e..	s
§	,:I
:l	.. 'S
a..	..
I"I	a,
ll	!	a
!!
h	0.. "'	.!!	e
....	s
...:.'.I :.I.	:0  i
J.., :;1  !
I	! ..
:I	:i	hl
0	.a	,3
-.
0 ..
:z.
:	C' =	:
t•.>	:ii	D
0 "C	:
cl  s	:a
i	II
IP.
t.>	=


























0
<,gr:
Ilal'Illtable, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	fl,500	50	'3,750	16,000	4
Bristol,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
E1111ex,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	10,000	18	80,000	10,000	25
Hampshire,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middleaex, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	4	6,800	9	14,800	4,800	8
Nantucket,.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,

Plymouth, • Suffolk,	.
g;;



Irn
(I)
a.

(;
0
Worcester, .
Totals,
---
2	15,050

...-
(v
Plam Carda,	t Tom Stnr.w Jloud.	cc


..
,I!	8
PLUiO-FOBTE8, &o.•
e'a t	...
8
...
...	" b  .ii	s:I
•	s	i	,'";l
.i:	!
C O U N T I E S .	a
....
!I -z 	I
..	!I 'ii "'	B
....
..	=;:II •
:,	;;	I
Ill
0  RS
Ill
0	'a
.!I
U'i
.:..I.
.9	--s"	'a
'a	'a I i!	i	S
• s:I	3	'a5'a
•   0	3 1
•	a	.. -	•
.:! I	a	·":!Ii      i i
It;  -	;:
"
Ill
t.)
,5 i!i
;":
t•.)
;;...:.
Barnstable, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, Bristol, Dukes,
Essex,.
Franklin, Hampden,
•	.	-	- -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
.	-	-	-	-	-	1	,s,ooo	11,200	f5,000	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	1	6,000	-	8,000	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	3	41,600	14,750	19,000	-	-
•	-	-	-	-	-	1	30,000	5,000	40,000	-	-
Hampshire, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex,
•	1	'2,000	42	,s,ooo	'3,000	6	38,000	8,300	29,700	3	tl0,300

<,Ci..
N.
CD
Q_
CJ"
'<
C"')
0
........
rv






Bee Note   .

r....
p
...












IflJ
cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a	"l!ee No&. 89.
...


0


5





















0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0
















See Note 69.
I
r....
OD
?

- -	-	-
TYPE ..t.JID ST.l!.lU!:OTYl'IC l'OUNDJU&
;,	.=	..	'il	.,;	i	1	l	8. .,;	1	i	:,;
...
L..J
i	8	..	:ll
e	11D
ii;
C O U ll' Tl.l!. 8.	IQ 'il
i:: I e i	!	i	·.....	i
... j
..	_.g..'	.a..
:i	'o
• i '<S	.s	a
:	0...
a
:I ;;;
.s	e	="
'o  ll	.,,
§	71	..	il
!	i	..
:,.
&	>	c;.)	)II	r::	)I;	I>
."'
0•	:a	..
.; a

al  '""' l:iO
i	I	7e1	'o
.. iii "g .!!	I	1
..	""

































0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0
Barnstable, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
E88ex,	•.	1	1,030	f5,000	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden,  .	..	1	25,000	25,000	,10,000	1	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	1	15,000	1,000	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	1	10,461	6,042	6,134	4	-	1	fl5,000	'20,000	'7,000	8	-
Nantucket,.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk.,	.	1	4,400	24,000	10,000	1	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Suffolk,	38	4,030,000	1,847,815	1,313,150	388	137	7	64,200	100,000	102,500	85	75
Worcester,.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	---	-
Totals,    .	43  1    4,004,801    ,1,000,257   ,1,s30,284	304	137	8	,10,200    ,210,000	8100,500	03 	75
•l!ee Not.e 70.



00


Q
el
IS'll



CLOCKS.	SEWING KACBDE&
....
i	.s..	b	1	1..	a
b	t	i t	I	1
C O U N T I E S.
=	"..'.	=
I	..	a0	e
"'	:lal  "	:..	i
$	1	;!
...
.!:!
.a.	j
:ii  .	...	::di
...
.!:!	a..
0 ,:	"	i	.
i	ii	.. "	0	3
8 :,	:,	..	 	
1H	•	J
•  0
z0	7lo1o   "
:	""	71	a   	 		;"a	a•
CJ	:ii	IC
loo	loo	CJ
Barnstable,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	.	1	'2,500	1,000  $10,000	'3,000	5	1	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	fT,937	500	$10,000	'8,500	11	ij
Franklin,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	60,800	6,017	826,700	240,800	151
Middlesex, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	7,000	4,416	25,000	5,000	14
Nantucket, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
cg	Norfolk,	.	.	1	4,000	632	25,764	40,000	36
N.
-	-	-
. -	-	-


CJ"
Plymouth,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-
'<
(';
Suffolk,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	4	233,000	26,556	777,528	530,000	285
0	Worcester, .	-	·-	-	-	-	- ---
1	16,618	11,079	88,632	12,000	88
a	Totals,   .	2	16,500	1,632    '35,764    '48,000	41	1	9	'325,855	4&,568 lfl,227,860	'796,800	649
r...
;()I)

D.lOtJERUOTYP.U  AMD  PB0TOORAPB8.•	•	PJIIIS.
1,	...	j	.,;	;i	0	...	:l,
...
 	
..:...
.9	J
..	..	..
O O tJ N T J E8,	;;	GO
j	s	I..
a	1	"	a
i.. Jf
'a	..	:
s	a..	I	=
G..O.

,d
t;,
.i.
:a	J l
..s!.
....
;:
3	!	I
:ii
0 'C
= ..	....
Ill	Ill	1	:ii	Ill	Cl	I>-
.:	o 3	;:
$	.
'il
Bal'Dltable,	.	5	f550	2,900	tl,875	11,250	5	1	-	-	-	-
Berbhire,  •	8	9,240	46,380	18,642	12,500	14	6	-	-	-	-	00
Bristol,	24
34,847	442,M2	70,778	85,250	53	43	-	-	-	-
1-3
Dukes,	.	2	800	3,200	1,800	1,250	3	-	-	-	-	-
E886x,	.	.	34	23,899	245,000	65,830	25,200	56	20	-	-	-	-
Franklin,   •	8	1,800	12,000	3,500	1,500	4	3	-	-	-	-
Hampden,  .	9	25,940	106,600	59,381	29,100	32	10	1	110,000	t	115,000
Hampshire,	8	4,900	31,850	10,492	8,125	12	7	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, .	.	34	26,622	263,964	76,227	32,000	58	15	-	-	-	-
Nantucke&, •	.	2	750	10,500	,2,400	1,200	4	-	-	-	-	-

trj
Norfolk,	.	.	14	4,735	71,950	18,465	9,900	20	3	-	-	-	-	?l
0	Plymouth, •	10	4,571	54,669	15,064	8,950	13	3	-	-	-	-
cg	Suffolk,	.	72	116,230	3,501,200	285,303	119,750	150	120	-	-	-	-


CJ"
Worcester, .	.	28
20,093
285,885-- 61,535  -
23,465	47	18	-	-	-	-
'<
(';	2
---
---- -	----
Totals,
0
53	t274,470	5,028,640	f690,792	'309,440	471	249	1	f l0,000	-	f15,000
'1
a	•See Note 1,.	t Bair PIN,	0


0
C>


















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a

















•O-'O-.	t  Chlldma.
-
t;;
-'C/l


IS"/.l
,.......,
00


LOOltINO-OLA88E8   AND  PICTUU  l'BAllU.•	CRRONOMETEBS, WATCHES, GOLD A1'D 8ILVBB WA.BIi A1'D ,U!lWBLBT,
f	...	,!,	I	1 f	-	!';l	.i	j	l '   ....;.
....
00

..:....,
-	.0.
.i i	.0.
.SI
.a.
...
r:s :f
l	..
.SI
.a.	1
C O U M T I E 8.	...	a ..;
= l	..	I
a	i:	I	l.!.	a	I
...	:	0	3
0 'C	L	"
.a	'S
!'C   a...;i:
•	-!
.   d  3	:	:	•	.. a
i"ii	a•
.•..
Ill	:,;	t,)	=	z	I>-	I>-	t,)	lll
Barnstable,	lt  '200	80          f240    '200        1      -      -       -        -         -        -  -
Berkshire,  •      .  1	500	300        1,000	200        1      -     -      -       -        -       -   -
Bristol,      .   .   8      11,100          92,550       17,777           8,750      30       27    '338,695	t      '737,895      f240,950     688    122 Dukes,      .  .  -     -      -      -      -     -   -     -      -      -       -       -   -   Euex,       .   .  5        3,842         2,491        7,128         6,650       12                2	2,000        §	5,500	2,000	4       -
Franklin,   .      1	150	100	500	200         1       -      -        -        -        -        -  -
Hampden,  .       .   2          6,200          9,200        12,250           5,500         6         2       133,000	D            212,000          30,000         83     16
Hampehire,        .   -     -       -        -       -     -    -     -       -       -         -       -    -
Middleaex,  .    .   8        6,870      220,850        16,075        11,947      13               4      171,521	N         1,033,914         752,700       411    203
Nantucke&, .       .   -     -       -        -        -     -    -     -       -        -        -       -   -
Norfolk,      .   .    -      -        -       -       -     - 1        4         23,285	§	134,146          104,237           86      42
Plymouth,  •       .   -     -       -      -       -     -     -      -       -      -        -       -    -
cg	Suffolk,	.	.	22	82,740	202,016	216,791	93,300	168	29	275,483	a	609,633	205,200	245	54



en
1-3



I

CJ"
'<
Worcester, .	.	5	3,400	-	6,725	2,300	4	11	3,831	II
21,000	6,150	20	1
(';
0
--	-- --	-
Totals,	53   1116,011	527,587  1278,486   t124,047	236	79	f917,815	'2,754,088  f l,341,237   1,487   437
a	• .9ee Motil 77.	t  hi opaatloll -month only.	i .Jewell'J.	f  Watobee•  .	9 Varlou.	a  All klndl.
.....
0.....


!UTTRES8ES.	BRUSHES.•	j
b	...	...	j	'i	,:I	,I	...	,!,	j
!	s...	,;
...	a
-!! !.,
Ii	,;
,:I

C O U N T I E S.
"Ii	I.I./.)	.c	9.
I	0	a	s
:i
...
a .,;
.. f
:I	a..
;.:.;.i;.	0	...
.!I	a	!	0
..	...	s	a
O	,g a
..	a	9!	..
o;:
il	'o  i	0•
I	I	..	'o
:j	.. ::t	•
l	.;
zo ..	>
:a	i:	Ill	0•	j
Barnstable,       .  1	'200	50	'400         '400     1      1     -      -        -       -       -
Berkshire,  .      .  1	275	10i  375	75       1      -    -       -         -          -        -
Bristol,	.	1	500	162	800	300	2	-	1	tl8,000	-	136,000	tl,800	2
Dukes,       .      -      -         -        -        -      -    -    -       -        -         -     -
Esaex,	1	425	225	500	650	1	1	1	10,000	720,000	25,000	25,000	0
Franklin,    •	-      -         -        -          -      -    -   -      -         -       -       - Hampden, .	1	t	52	262	-     -    1     -      -        -         -        - Hampshire,	1	1,000             250	1,500	1,000        2         -    -      -         -          -        -
Middlesex, •      . 1	750	75t         1,500	100          1     -    4         46,193        259,000         91,331         50,000   l
Nantucket, .       .  -      -        -       -          -      -    -   -      -        -         -      -
cg	Norfolk,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
N.	Plymouth,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
>
t:d
00





t:d
'"'1
8
S2
t":I
fll

CJ"
'<
Suffolk,	.	8	227,670	14,820	326,601	89,750   47	95	3	97,000	802,000	210,000	115,000    l 0
(';
0
Worcester,. -
2	2,575	860	6,100	1,500	4	7	2	7,800	14,400--
24,866
7,000
a	Totals,    .	. 17	t23S,895

16,204   1   tss8,os8

'93,775

59   ,  105
11	tl78,993	1,385,400	1387,197	t108,800	l 80  r
ex,
See Note 90.
t  ranillbed b7 rarnUaN Store.
t Dair.	?


IIADDLES, JLUU(Ell(IBII AND TBUlUtll,•	JIILITA.BT OOOD8 .a.•» ZQUlPJIUTI,
0-0
j	Nc11au ll.urDl'4CTDll&D.	i
...	I	1	j	...	ti	l	l	,:I
L..I
J	i	!...
:..
C O U lC TI E 8.	...	!
"B'
'r:! :I	t	I	i
...	.9	a
:I	1
'S t
a..
•..
0... "..
..	il	3	•
0... "..	::
i 9	3
I	71
a	...
;":
a•	J
c1 a	:
r,.	•	i
Ill	r,.	0	Ill
Barnstable,	4	-	87	-	'2,770	11,550	11,500	6	-..
0	!lo<
-	-	-	-	-























0
<,gr:
(I)
a.
Berkshire, •	16	-	599	-	23,005	13,997	12,700	31	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	12	-	999	-	22,620	17,225	14,050	36	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
EBSex,	23	10	448	250	18,531	16,505	11,672	53	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,	7	-	381	-	13,308	7,880	5,600	15	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden,  .	18    1,001   1,039	500	47,755	24,060	21,800	80	8	1668,157  11,000,000    ,120,000     445	180
Hampshire,	8	-	279	-	4,595	2,665	8,825	13	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	40	-	630	5,642	46,031	25,156	17,800	70	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, •	2	-	10	-	472	200	-	2	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	17	-	194	800	10,715	7,508	7,675	31	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  •	10	-	93	-	6,278	3,285	2,000	12	-	-	-	-	-	-
Suffolk,	.	87	125      2,391   15,124	431,465	242,595	152,600     224	2	2,700	6,000	2,000	2	8
Worcester,.	28	-	868	884	M,208	24,785	19,775	68	1	14,800	35,000	15,000	40	-
00





c:l
I
(;
0
...-
(v
------------
Totals,	217    1,136    8,018   23,200   1695,753   '388,396    1270,497	641
·--	-	. -
Bee Note 81.
6  I 1685,65711,on,000	1137,000    487	188
"'

r
"-

I;
!
It.s,j
{IJ
cg
N.


CJ"
'<
(';
a






11M Nole 8'.

-	,.....,
0
•
l'UB GOODS .UID LEATaE& GLOVES  AJiJ) 111rrrus.	CO&DAGZ.
....
00
;	g	·--     ii

.,;
,d	.,;	..;	j
1	"g	l	'i	,d
i.:....,
;;	!	a	• a	,i,	a
C O U N  T I ES.	i:I :I
...
g ..1	g
>"	a0	e..
! ...	1  1
..	a
e..
a"	.0   "'
:Q:i ::l i
.s	.a.	,0; i

::I "
.s	a..	=
.,:	" I
i¥: I"i...	..
A  Ii	..
I	I!	iai
0 :!	;:	""
.
a..	i:
J :;I
."a 	ii
I>-	ii
Blll'D8table,	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	t.350	1,000§	t450	'300	1
Bristol,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	260,000	1,ooott	400,000	75,000	80	2
Dukes,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	-	-	-	-	-	-	'-	4	11,514	S7,800§	22,764	7,100	42
Franklin,  .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	2	t700 1,100•	tl,350	t800	2	2	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex,  •	.	2	2,800	t	6,000	S,000	s	5	s	4,389	s1y	18,320	4,600 	16
Nantucket,.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	1	1,()00	-	1,SOO	800	1	-	6    1,150,000	a	1,497,053	502,525 	410
0	Plymouth, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5	535,853	2,14oU	803,215	254,800	246	1





t::d






9J
<,gr:
(I)
Sull'ollc,	.	.  16	331,700
i	549,885	317,500    56    1S6	3	7,575	2011	13,400	2,150	9
a.	,vorceater, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
(;	Totals,	. 21	1336,200	-
0	-- ·
8558,485 I 8322,100
--	-
62    143	23  ,1,969,581	-	f2,755,202   1846,475    803	3io

.........
...-
(v
Pain UIUem.	t l'ar Good.I a11d MiU.111.	i KoetlJ' For Goods.	t Poundl,	U TOIi.i,	4  Variou.
....




SHIPS OR V.ESSELS.•	BOATS.t
...	i:	,!,
...
C O U N T 1E8.
....	•
f	I	'a.
.:I .d	!	I	a
:a	3	.s
i	i	i	i:	1
!
0	J'SI  i
!I 'S
.0... 1 i	.s
.e.
" ·'S  1
.. ...	'S
.a.
J.S.i•	.. ';
i t.
;:; s ...	I
j	•.. ';	6  ,g
:	I	i
:ii
;":	0  .I	!a	l1
 J	
o -	'a
la	I!;	I>-
:ii	I>-	Q	Q
Barnstable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5	13,450	27	14,325	'2,700	6
Berkshire,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	4	130,850	6	1,561	183,800	157,000	60	11	12,835	377	30,485	11,600	32
Dukes,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	360	4	. 790	1,000	2
E1188x,	.	. 27	409,480	46	12,247	727,380	382,500	454	15	22,666	2,036	47,262	13,350	56
Franklin,   •	.	-	-	-	-	-	- .
-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hamp,hire, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middleaex, •	.	2	72,500	2	2,050	111,000	50,000	75	1	250	18	600	200	1
Nantucket, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	242	4	742	600	8
cg	.	.	2	62,000	. 8
.
6	81,500	50,000	65	10	5,675	210	13,200	10,780	20
Norfolk,
N.
1,63


CJ"
'<
(';
Plymouth, •	6	25,000	6	563t	27,600	26,100	48	8	1,320	12	2,770	425	3
Sutrollc,	15    2,169,810	85	83,424   8,320,000	423,000	973	6	7,600	147	21,200	4,500	23
0	Worceeter, •	. -
----
----	-	-	-
--	-	-	-	-	-	-
a	Total,,    .	. 5Q   '2,760,640	98	51,481  14,351,280	1988,600    1,670	55	'54,808	2,835	1121,374    145,155	146
.-,
- -	-  -  --
--	---
-   --	-	- --
-00
See Note 87.	t Oae !upablp DOI laaDebed.	t See Note 88.



K.t.8T8 AND 8P.t.RS.•	BAlt.8.t
...
Cl)



C O U X T I E B.
0	i:	;,
i
l'all  1 	i

.s
.I..

11
l..'.
s	I
!	19
!	i l Q
.i..
?'
L..J
i	•	J S	:	3
'a	'o	l;	:
6 :	:"' i	1 a	'i
a•	j
0	. 'a .:	:	:
Ill	Ill	I>-	c:.>	Ill
8 Barnstable,	.	1	fS,000	195	'5,050	fl,100	8	20	351	170,989	'81,105
Berkshire,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	.	.	8	6,500	415	12,000	9,500	11	11	160	26,284	33,232
Dukea,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	7	575	1,000
Essex,	.	4	28,250	1,887	39,750	Sl,200	16	20	536	125,392	150,000
Franklin,    •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden,  •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	.	2	26,000	1,050	87,000	80,000	14	-	-	-	-
Nantucket,.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	4	649	805
Norfolk,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	13	2,858	S,436 Plymouth,   •	.	1	200		40	600	-	1	6	85	12,462	14,141
cg	Suffolk,	.	.	8	143,000	4,930	857,600	77,000	111	36	9,799	301,150	510,750



Q
t::d
Irp
CJ"
Worceater,  •
-	-- ---
------ -
'<	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
(';
0
0
Totals,    .	19	1206,950	'8,517	1052,000	f l48,800	)56
97,- 10,955
-

1540,359	1794,469
,..1.
OQ	• 8ee Note 89.	t Bee Note 90.


-..­i





g;
00










cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
t:d
I9l
,.--,
00
?
-- -  -	-·   --   -__ _  	" _ _ _ __  ____   _ -      - ·-	·  - -· - ----- ----- - -	---- ---	-	---    -      -
BAILROAD  CABS,  COA8{lfi'n	1:rJt:iiAOON8,  SU:lOIIS AND	CABBJAO&  WBULll.t
...
J,	*	..	j .	i	..	1
C O U N T I E R.
r:I :!	e ...
GD	!	a
's  ";	I f 	I
...	.s	e
s
o i	'a .a
...	..
,3
"
0 ..	-;a
il	a•
:II	z	I>	I>	u	i

Bristol,	.	.	20	311	.  59,459
Q
4



Middleaex,
-

cg
N.


CJ"
'<
(';
0
Worcester, .
-36
1,678
--

...
a	•See Nole 9'J.	t l!ee Nole 98.	i 17,760ot &b- nre Oblldreo'a8ledl and <Jarrllcea.	f 600 Wbeell, 400 Nia Axloa.	I Moet.17 npalra.	11 MotU7 Oblldno'e, 	01
,

SUGAR REFINERIES,	MAPLE  SUGAR,	CONFECTIONERY,

'...
C>
'.C.	j
"	g•	i	..	•	"g
g	g 1
i	...	a	..,	...	a	J,	...	' "
C O U N T I E S,
.".
.....	.I.l.l	;;. 	ii
:I	Ill
CJ  s
,;	0.. ..,
0 'i	...
.9	s..
...
•	..	.. .".
..	'a  t:-
..	t	•	'	1
.a	,8  i	0•
0   .S..
:1	.a ...
0	I	!	.. "	:,
" ..
0	g t
•"'	i	!c	;i	0  ;l!	;i  "	g &
:z;	>	,.	>	CJ	>	:z;	>	""
Barnstable,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	113,808
Bristol,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-
--	-	8	95,500	85,000









cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
0
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	.	-	-	-	-	-	..l	-	-	10	24,431	86,416
Franklin,  .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	153,810	28,965	-	-	-
Hampden, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	57,705	9,776	2	156,000	530,000
Hampshire,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	90,015	16,669	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	.	1  '2,363,800	10,800,000   '2,750,000	t252,000	85	-	-	10	41,548	237,000
Nantucket,.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	8	3,500	13,500
Plymouth,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	2	4,190	20,050
Suffolk,	.	.	2	3,200,000	35,000,000	4,100,000	850,000	225	-	-	24	289,014	678,883
Worcester, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	4	7,889	83,472



t:d
1-'1
IflJ

Totals,
-------
--
8    '5,563,800	45,800,000
t6,S50,000  I,1,102,000

810	415,428	'81,848	64	f624,572	1,601,221
,..,
0.,0,
;:."


CONl'JtCTIO!'IEBY- ConUUue4.	tllfBBE.LL.H  AND PAL\.80L&
4£	i	..	a	•	§

j	l	...
,_.
(¥)
C>
L°..J'
C O U N T I ES.
"0	0	a
-i '
,g l!	;	a,
=..
"ii.	a..
c:.i    •	a	..
..	...	.9	a
'!;  t:
.9	I
:	... "..	I s	I
-a a	a
   	..
!	..
::	3	o a	0	3 1	I	•	a
•	!	-a	0  ;;	I	:"	"	•	..

>	c:.i	:it
..	z	()









c,g,:.
co
a.
Barnstable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, •	13,000	'500	1	8	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Briatol,	.	128,100	24,400	18	7	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	31,675	12,550	22	18	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,  .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	212,000	26,500	St	12	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlcaex, •	68,770	32,900	30	15	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	, 5,800	1,700	4	2	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth, .	6,624	8,500	4	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Suffolk,	495,925	76,500	106	90	4	56,500	1117,000	167,000	147,000	17 	65
'Worcester, .	10,860	2,500	9	6	-	-	-	-	-	-	-












('.)
ij
t,:j
cr	--- ---------	--
'<
C"')
0
......
ro
Totals,    .	1957,75!    i
'181,050	228	153	4	56,500	8117,000	167,000
-'47,000117    65


-,_.:i. "I




l'ORT-MONNAIES,  POCKET BOOKS AND WALLETS.	PHOTOGRAPH  ALBUllS.


-:i
00
/   ).	"..' ...,	•
...	..;	..;	,d	i	i	=

!!	• I::
::	..	'a.	"..
C O U .ll T I E8.
r:l :;
... -:,	a	QQ	;
a	:,
er.,	a  .
•   Ir;	:,..	t;.>,	II
li'l
.:,..	Ii';
"	I	...
>	a..
...	...
... ..	0
...	0	.!:!	s	•
·o	.. I::
0    8	." ""	•
il	3
;a	"f 'i	.! "
C -
"'	ll •	"	;;.	a	C  'C	9 j
6 ;l!	'3 a	;!
•  0
"'
Barnstable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	-	-	-	-	-	.	-	1	ta50	3,500
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	.	1	2,200•	118,000	,11,000	'3,000	3	30	-	-	-
Franklin,  .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	.	-		-		-		-		-	-		-	1	143,000	167,000 Hampshire,	.	1	20,0oot	120,000	75,000	30,000	20	30	1		400	1,800
Middlesex, •	.	1	8,640	4,000	1,000	500	1	8	1	8,000	11,500
0	Nantucket, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-






1-1
I
<g:
;;;·
(0
Norfolk,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
a.	Plymouth, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
C')
Suffolk,	.	.	1	6,912f	7,500	5,000
4	26,860	41,778
0	Worcester, .
-1 -
13,200 -
87,000 -
22,000
--	------------------
Totals,	5	-	1186,500	1114,000

8	1173,610	2.'.?5,578
,---,
•w.u....	t Varlou.
00
Cl)




PUOTOORAPU ALBOllS-Con,
- ------1--------:.!  -	j




INK, ENVELOPER  AND OTBU ARTJCLEII  OP 8TATJONEBT,
...




..;



(1:)

..:...,
.s,,
C O U ll T J E 8,
i..	at
s• 	Ii
!....
. !;!
i	a	s..
0	a	:,
l	a..
".'.
s..	I
ll         8 1
'S i	3
a
I
.si
:,
.i	•	
0 'C
o S
8 Ii
a
•	:;;	..
""
>	-.)	I<\
Barnstable,         .      -          -        -       -      -        -	-         -        -       -
Berkshire, .	-		-        -      -       -        -         -		-         -       - Briltol,       .  .    11,875	11,000	1	8	1	1200	ttoo•         1100	1	- Duke,,      .   .      -         -         -        -       -        -	-	-        -      -
Essex,	.      -	-         -      -        2	6,150	10,450	1,900	5	-
FJ'8Dklin,  •	-	-        -      -       -        -	-	-         -      -



ij
t:d
n
Hampden, .	237,000	50,000	25	40	1	25,000	80,ooot	9,000	4	18
Hampehire,.	l,000	100	1	-	1	175	1,100•	225	3	1
Middleaex, . ·  .	6,000	1,000	2	3	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	-	-	-	-	1	15,000	25,000•	15,000	6	-
Plymouth,  •	-	-	-	-	1	120	800•	400	1	1
cg	Suffolk,	60,327	15,500	27	27	2	6,900	19,400	· 11,000	6	8
t.-r:I
CJ"
'<
Worceater, .	. --
- -------	-
-	4	114,750
--154,000
39,500	25	67
(';
a
Totals,    •	• 	f:306,202
---   ------ -   -	-
 	$67,600	50	78	13      I
1168,295	1241,150	'77,125	51	05
,...
Jot.	t Bnnlopee.


" "--- -  - -	-	- --    --	-      -	- - - - -   - - -      - - -   - -    ----	--  -   ·-
CLOTIIISO.•	CROCOLATE.
"N)'
i,	t	l
.s	!	B i	i
..	a
C	i	...
.s	a
..	-;
0	j s
..
I	.a
0
:	0	o l	';	:a

t.)
I!;	"	>	Q	=
-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-

II>
t:d










cg
N.

CJ"
(';
Bristol,	.	29	208,088	299,983	180,850	68	250	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	2	1,600	2,200	1,700	2	4	-	-	-	-	-
Esaex,	.	44	208,726	859,178	123,175	84	858	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,	9	26,150	36,300	10,900	13	41	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden,  •	20	85,095	172,875	49,430	54	109	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	6	13,720	27,600	8,800	12	23	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	78	427,894	663,837	172,360	138	626	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	80	91,887	151,081	41,975	52	104     I	4	960,000	1344,000	1170,000	64
Plymouth,  •	17	21,900	153,682	10,900	24	266	-	-	-	-	-
Suff'olk,	.	232	9,604,365	15,186,833	8,865,350	1,479



8

t2S
'<


0	Worcester, .	104	814,592
19,205	-	-	-	-	-
547,989	154,450	174	1,482	-	-	-	-	-
a	Totals,    .	601	111,092,434     117,743,894	14,631,440	2,150	22,578	4	960,000	1344,000	1170,(l()()	64
S..MolelOO.

,-...,.
0:,






C O U X T I J:8.




:..i
0
0
:...

.J
....

..	.... "..
0
""



...
:: i
." 	i.

..	e
•
•
....



























0
<6'
aN..
CD
Q_
cr
'<
<..:I.

Barnstable,

Bristol, Dukes, Euex, Franklin,  .
Hampden, .
Hamp11hire,	.
Middlesex, .

Nantucket,. Norfolk,	.
Plymouth, • Suffolk,
Worcester, .	2	8,185	29,868	10,712	8,300
-
=





!
4    -16   --13,546	--56,237	--19,950	-65
C;	---	-	-
0
......
ro
Total,,	18	1684,870	8,002,085	1883,730	1119,250	108	124	1418,088	81,074,617	'414,745 	919
See Note 108.	t IDOladlnl '20,000 of 8pla&
"t....:.>.

    - .  • · .,  -  ·--



N)
SHEET LEAD AND LEAD PIPE.	SPERM AND TALLOW CANDLES.•	N)
;	...	.:	'll :,
,.:.j	}•,	.....
!.g
1..	Q.
r:'l
...
s	8. 'll	;a  •
:;;	u;
rr.,
a	e	..
cl
-.a
...	.
C O U N T I E S.

] :§
...
...
.I..
... =
0
.:..I
.5	e
...
...
rr.
.".". a
0 "
... ,:j	.a	,:j
.0.	.0.
3	"	0	.. ,:j
0  ..
0
;	.a :a
'.5; e
;	":,
.f.
;"a
i t 1z
:,	Q.	"
9:  :;	:
-; ;
g oi	;;  :I	:l o
,l!
'l!
" :I
z	>	0...	"
>	.g.. t
;;;
•	=	z0
I>	""	>	""












<,Ci..
N.
I>	0
Barnstable, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	1200	-	-	1,500
Berkshire,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	4	1,917	-	-	28,556
Bristol,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	5	87,847	291,157    8107,848	-
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	-	-	-	-
Essex, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	8	14,178	-	-	100,820
Franklin,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	3	11,390	-	-	64,816
Hampshire, .
Middlesex, .
Nantucket,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	4,000	2,000	800	-
Norfolk,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	40,000	-	-	300,000




00





t:d
I9)
CD	Plymouth,	1	14,000	130,000	17,500	-	-
-	-	-	-	-


Q_
CJ"
'<
C"')
8,000	2
Suffolk,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	5,000	25,000	7,500	-
,vorcester,  .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	6	24,565	-	-	36,405
0
........
rv
-------
Totals,	•	2    .. 39,000
230 000   I 1192,500   l t,500,000
---------	----
1250,000 fl08,000	7	iO   '366,119	783,292   1212,862 1,307,d46
,......,
OD
CT>
• S.. Note 106.


sr·M do  1'ALLOW CANDLES-Con.  ,	SOAP.•
..;	'2  I    i;	...	(!    I,	'E  I,	I,	j	....;
....
00
0)
QI
..:...,
C O U N T I E S.
s	......
:;,	;; !,,,
... :l
i	:..:.I""	:"l
:,.l	0
,l	Jl 'a	,l	,!!	...
..
.:...l.
C	ii	"
...	0  6
...	0 a
s	.5
"5..
0	Cl	!l	0
.	:l
;";

'- :, 0 ..
o e
..;	-$
5	3
-g
,"I	"0    ,,, ".
3
J j	"



ii,. td










cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a












Totals,







!:261,265  I $.199,050
g
z
rn


-- --------------------------- ----- -
104       143	$943,601	49,6-16	$230,597	9,210,104	$993,733   $161,300    $419,485    385

N)
" 8N Noc. 106.
'
i	1
8PEBJI,  WHALE,  LABD  OB UNSEED  OIL.*
J• .,,	•	1!	•


;,:!,  ...	•





-.1
I.,:)
.i.
l	0

COUNT1E8 .

I>
;a I!
:!
.. 'a	I	IJt 'a
.!! od
'a
... s	g
0
..	a..
.. 8	1i
...
a	.....
...
.!l	s
-:; e
o a
ii	.2 =
0	a a	•
•o	':;
!	,3
z	;a	&o
.s :::
'iii 0
1	'"iii	a
0 ..	0	;..
: 0	0	I>-	Q
Barnstable, Berkshire,
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
t;;
Bristol,
.	6  '3,682,780  1,117,865  '2,558,765   1,298,958 tl,669,205
-	-	-	-	1968,000	79	:
Dukes,
Essex,
Franklin,
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Q
t:d
Hampden, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,. N
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-•
-	-
-	-	-	-
-
Middleae.1:, •	.	2	113,780	2,540	4,600	800	12,600      144,678      '284,591     120,000	'25,000	50,000	Ul
antucket, .	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-
0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
Norfolk,
Plymouth,
.	-	-	-	-	-	. -	-	-	-	-	-	-
•	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
!Z
C')
Suffolk,	.	2	680,000	-	-	-	-	249,898	600,000  331,500	450,000	245,000	4
0	Worcester, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
---
Totals,	10    14,426,560  1,119,905   '2,563,365  1,294,758  11,681,805

Ila Kola lOT.
894,574    1884,591   451,500     1475,000  11,2611.000	140
r....
OD
...
00

i:..,



-














cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a

















• 11N Nole 109.	t 11N Nole 110.

;..
ij
t:d
Irn

'1




KEROSENE  OR  REFINED PETROLEUM.


--i
0)
i	-3 t	C)	'ii	....

.;	0 ...  '	'C	,i
C O U N T I ES.	,Q	C.)   "
..	0...
s	5 .,;	s	n	s	,g :!
a	"'
e •	5	0	,;
.. u	cl	,;	5
0	...	...	..	..	..	...	...
!I	... s
0	I	; I	I
:s 1
:	.I o
:	l•,;
i!I !I	0    ..	:;	;: -d	0	.!!  .=	0	•  0  :..	.0.	.	0.	0
...	'ii  :I
'ii	.o
..	"	f ':,
'; Ill il: .e
" s
'ii	'ii
°'"·Cs	g	li  Ill	•	t  ;
i":
0  z - .-
0
i"i
'0;  :!
0	>
.!!
0
:,;
0 ""
>	r":,  "	>	>
Barnstable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,		5	513,730	1190,194	730	18,0!5	19,000	'34,250	361,800	'233,100   215,000  1107,500	42,300 Dukes,	.	-		-		-	-		-		-		-		-		-	-	-		-
Essex,	1	80,000	16,500	25	270	-	-	24,000	19,400	-	-	8,000
Franklin,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-


r::n
1-j
:::::,
>
Q
td
§


0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0


--------------------------------
Totals,	14    2,429,480   11,097,777    4,136   158,460	75,850	8128,3j5    2,219,447   11,620,481  680,869   '410,656     810,926
-


.........,
00

or:,
KEROSENE OR REFINED PETROLEUM-Con.	POWDER  KILLS.•
•	-	.;
....
..;	l	...	I	1	i!
..:...
s ..
!.I.
-0  ....;.
'e	I.I.	i
I	. 'o
'.".-.
.s	e	=:a=	'"
'" "5
I	.s	e
C 0 U l( T I E 8.	e	I	0	:
"c.
.!i	"'
'.".
. ,ll  :
'.o.	!"	3	..	'"
.. ..;	.:i e
'.".
..	..
C.	>	>
(•.)
"	0	.. "
"0   .....	..	• 	ii
"	g	"	"E.
.a	0	" IC	r::   ..	"	i	.a
It;	>	C.	>	(.)
Bara.table, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	I	-	-	t;
Berkshire,   •	-	-	-	-	-	-	s	112,000	235,000	eaooo  I	f4,500 	7
Bristol,	.	113,900   209,000    141,720	121,600	f l52,500	52	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	.	8,500	-	-	8,660	12,000	s	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,  .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	s	SS,980	264,700	49,986	12,000	8	8
Hampshire,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	ij
Middlesex, .	-	·-	-	-	-	-	1	-	-	-	85,000	10
Nantucket, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	.	828	20,000	2,000	-
75,000	so
-	-	-	-	-	-	9l
cg
N.
CJ"
Plymouth,   •	2,560
-	-	-
-
20,000	6
-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-
SulJ'olk,	04,806    181,585	46,839	410,000	140
'<
(';
a
Worcester,  .	-	-	-	-	-	I_-	1	117,000	525,000	184,760	75,000	14
Totala,	8115,580    410,685    $90,559	825,260	1669,soo  I  2lll	8	1162,930	1,024,700     ..270,736	1126,600	39
• ._ Note 111.

"!.'3




QI)

















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a




-
S.. Nole lU.	t Tou.
8
0	;
ff.I




0	,.........,
QI)
-	00
AIUIS-CoaUDIM4.	CILUU, 11:o.•
t	j	'2	:d	i	..

L-1
C O U N T I ES .	i
:..
..s,.'	a	e	..
.s	.a.	:
a..

.ii
; 1	3
I	.ii	0


l,O
<	a•	.ii	'	ol
--
Barnstable, •	-
Berkshire,  •	-	I
t..>	ll	It;	t..>
-	-	-
8111	1	-
Bristol,	'7,000	69,000        115	-
Dukes,	.     -	-         -       -         -       -         -         -         -       -  -
Essex,.	-	-         -       -       -       -	-         -       -        -    - Franklin,	-     '  -         -      -       4	49,350       131,671           80,&>0         38,500	9S       S5 Hampden, .	-        375,000       765	5	-        -         -       -         -       -   -
Hampshire, •	50,000	60,000	-       -        -        -          -         -        -        -     -
Middlesex, •	-       70,500	92	6	2          31,000            60,000       160,000            60,000	85         -
Nantucket, •	-	-         -       -        -        -         -         -         -        -    -




t:Xl
I
Norfolk,	.	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-
fll

<g:
Suffolk,	-
-	.,.I
Plymouth,  •	-	-	-	,.	-	-	-	-	-	-
N.	526,750	455	6	72,200	110,500	35,000	67	85
co	·worcester, •	-	2s2,ooo I	at6	-	49	654,163    1,381,643        1,492,364	563,156	1,186	2,122

!l
C"')
0
......
(v

Totals,	857,000

,1,353,361  1     1,774
--------
11	64	8783,413

l!ee NOle l1&
--------
1,653,014   11,852,164	1105,656  1   1,446

2,193




--1
co


CABISET      ARE.•	Ii	RATTAN.t
...:i
c,:,
0

.0.
"
..	0.
s	0
3
'E.
(.)
e
.....
'Z
0e.	..
3.


t:-1
>
Q

('.)
0



0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0







Totals,





91
-I
174  111,206,263  112,712,484	1933,700 12,202

See Not. lH	t S.. Not. 116.

1 I 150,000   .	243§!    212,500  I 100,800 I	35
2 I 1370,775	-	I f569,500	1275,800	120
i Pound,.	t  Tona.





20
230	,......,
co


TIN W.lRB•

,d        I



COJIBll.t
b	...	.,j	i	:d
....
QO
:,	.....
,!	g	.;	j	i	a
i	"5	"'	6	..
5	:,;	:0,,.
;:	c'.!	..
r::
...
:1
8..
::ii I!
...
i l •	'o
'=o
e
.E	e
3

-	-----·- -
C:
'.o; 'sC	..,.	a
:i	i
18  I
-	-	-	-	-	-	-
4q   I	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
62	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-	-
11! I
4	1102,000	370,000	1185,000	1185,000	159	40
6	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
49	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-	- .	-	-	-

8

!7J
-	

cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
Plymouth, •	18	15,452
Suffolk,	51	273,750
Worcester, .	30	80,408
-	-	-	-	-	-	-
1	816	-	1,925	1,500	1	1
-18  -1-3-1-,050--136,6-70-	320,661	42,000   -286   -112
Tolals,	•
a
_ _ 346	t636,124     1
-    -
23	8233,866	506,670	1507,586	1178,500	446	163


...:i
l!ee Note ll6.	t l!ee Nota lli.
c....o.




WHITE  LEAD  AND  OTHER PAINTS.•


DRUGS,  HEDICINES  AND DTESTUl'l'S.
-.:i
c.o
to:>
i	.l.!:.
;.a. ..!	I	.
;.i.	I	.	t...
.....	.g..	!.; 1'!
..,!;I	'!.	o:.d.
C O U N T I ES.
fG	a"'°:  .	"'--
0	I	.2	;	i: 3	I	.2	8
A,	tl   U	...	D,	U
i:I :!
'o	e .,;	o .s	:I	::	i:l :1	'o	-s t	.s	Ii	:
'o g
.. ..i	f	I	"'  E	:s	1
!!	.:i I 'ci "	• '2	• :i	3	1	-;
o E	-;  I	" :l "	= ·	" i:'.:	I	i5.	"	· e	!!	= e	i5.	'ii	E












<,Ci..
N.
CD
Q_
CJ"
'<
C"')
0

-··  -----
Barnstable, • Berkshire, Bristol,













,vorcester, •
:,,
> a	:.	..	>- ·
-	-	-	:	-	:	-	: -
- !




















1




















5,000
>-















8,000
I







4,700	7

I?I
8
--1-----1	1-----1-----1-----1--1 1--1	1-----1-----,--,--
........
rv
Totals,
7  I  t679,100  I 4,333,101    1689,005	t2as,269  11a63,ooo  1124  11  87  I 1862,652  111,434,011,
Bee Note 118,	t   Commnoed baai- April  1, 1866,

•
1454,649  1243 I 136
,........,
0)
?



V.UUl188.	OLtlml AllD OVJd.
it :1	i	i	i	i	j
0-0
C O \J lJ T IZ 8.	'S a	III	Ii	!	a	Ii	S  I ,1	!	,t
'-'
9	-c;sl1:1
-g }11	A
.c;:
.;  S	-;	-.a;oo5a  .js   !A•	. .i
>	0		t.>		=	Ill	>	I>-	t.>	iii
-; ..	•	•
5
I;;
Franklin,	-	-	-	-	-	1	2,400	S,600	S,000	5
Hampden, •	•	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middleae:a:, .	•	8	f175,000	61,000	fl18,000	8	2	5,720	85,800	18,000	12
Nantucket, .	•	-	-	-		-	-	-	-		-	-	- Norfolk,	•		1	50,000	80,000	15,000		2	8	8,100	5,000	5,200		 8
Plymouth, •	•	1	1,200	6,000	1,000	2	-	-	-	-	-
cg	Suffolk,	•	•	6	79,000	68,750	35,500	28	1	800	1,500	200	1
N.




t:c
..,<
(:>


CJ"
'<
Worcester, .	•
--2   -
16,500	6,970	6,000	8	1	1,500	2,000
--1,200    -1
(';
a
Totals,	•	13	1321,700	172,720	8175,500	48	18	873,170	$233,700	8138,100	90
..	co

•
"co
..	""'






t,:j









("'.)



cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a



-
See Now m	t l!ee Nok l24.	i llontepe nklnle<l 6,000 livrell of llour, bul no ftlue pftll,
-
1""4
t;,,j
S"fJ




,...,
CX>
....
00
O>
L.-1





t:,::j
:
t:,::j
"<
("}

d


cg
N.


CJ"
'<"
(';
a



See Nole 126.	t Pouodl.	i Feet.




-.:i
co
,



PATENT  AND ENAMELLED LEATHER.	BOOTS AND BROE&•

-.:i
co
:!I	!;; i:l; "	"'	;..
i 1l	j !
 	..		..,
:I
I	i	i..

,:I
.0.
:	.s	B
.. ,!	.. ,!	IQ	..	a	E..
C O U N T I E 8.
":I'	Cl)
5
5	'2
I..
-a	IQ  !!	.. !!	8 i	g	!!	0	a
i:i :i	0	;
:.:
:	.!!
. E..	11
o E	;a  "
;.3	a•	;
;a   B	;;  B	e ;;	;"a  C.l.)	a•
E..
ij	8 1
0 "Cl    .. -	3
."a	e  II	e  II	•  8
3	;a
:,.	I>	I>	0	=	""'	""'	c::,	I>	0	:Ill	..
Barnstable,.	.	-	-	-	-	-	2,279	4,218	113,058	120,974	14,965	29	2
Berkshire,  •	-	-	-	-	-	9,922	106,970	135,803	214,050	65,041	144	6
Bristol,	.	2  ,200,121    1276,000    IS0,000	62	24,368	221,326	319,197	444,972	107,260	292 	6
Dukes,
Eaaex,	.
Franklin,	-	-	-	-	-	12,900	1,990	25,550	42,005	10,025	45
Hampden,  •	-	-	-	-	-	48,830	4,046	129,807	182,798	38,850	93
Hampshire,	-	-	-	-	-	2,803	755	4,175	18,102	14,050	30
7,S  -5-
6
7
Q
t:::I
Middlesex, •	6    283,132	491,550    129,200    106	1,398,181     6,799,964	6,014,768	8,778,463	2,082,693	6,258	1,fi   0

<,Ci..
Nantucket, •	-	-	-	-	-	750	975	8,840	7,020	750	8
1	l,rj
N.	Norfolk,	4   183,624	238,015	86,000    78	2,195,293	578,870	6,796,501	7,816,672	1,295,494	6,872	ll 2
CD
Q_
CJ"
Plymouth,  •
-	-	-	-	-	379,400	3,124,403	4,476,369
6,422,660	1,009,525	9,605
a ,0
'<
C"')
Suffolk,	-	-·	-	-	-
96,816	446,747	425,014
793,498	212,872	627	l  1
0
........
rv
Worcester, .	-	-	-	-	-	2,795,835	1,909,086	6,808,066	10,161,910	1,976,839	6,107	1,0  9
Totals,	15   '784,177 11,086,565  1227,500 258	7,249,921  24,620,660  '85,040,544   '52,915,243   110,067,474    42,626   12,li 84	';]
00
See Not.127.


ENGINE AllD OTHER HOSE.	STRAW  BODETB ilD'IU.TB.
...
i	...	.., i •1	..
l	1  i	1	!!i	..	J j
..	i.:..,
C O U l.'l'Tl ES.     l i "..'	c:I  '"O"  aC)  iC,	g
is	i
.....	s
..	g
o B	0.. ...
i:	.0.
!	..

1:1 :!	0	'S

... s t
...
"'	.: B
lol
:1	....	,II	;
i	0 :ii
....
0 .:,	0
0 :!
;.:. a
Al! ..... s
il! I
0 il1 ..	=

IP.
r::I 0	;:
0•	=	zo  S

i,..
';I
i,..
Barnatable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	1100	100	l300	-	-
Bristol,	2	1940	1,333	tl,905	,1,000	2	2	86,600	23,000	125,000	-	'15,000
Duke,,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-


00
1-3
Eaeex,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,  .	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	-	-	-	-	-	-

t:d
Hampshire,	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	25,000	-	-	58,817	35,000
Middlesex, .	-	-	-	-	-	-
210,883	190,250




0
<,gr:
(I)
Norfolk,	.	2	23,465	21,566	31,715	20,000	5	13	1,678,160	519,385	902,918   1,775,870	1,521,900	rn
Plymouth, •	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	125,000	50,000	50,000	225,000	175,000
Suffolk,	-	-	I	-	.  -	-	-	2	45,200	33,250	86,464	00,000	90,000
a.	Worcester, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	6	350,485
121,874	229,981	899,048
298,626
(;	Totals,
4  I 124,405

22,809	'33,620	121,000
-- --

10,937	985,359   11,717,084     2,867,985    12,546,453
0
...-
(v
7	39   '2,8
'1
'1



BTB.AW  BONNETS  A.ND  JliT&-ConUnaed.	PALK LE.A.I'.•

(SJ
I! '"li .0.	!.	.s
1	i	I	i	';	I	l
C O U N T I E S.	m ..., !I
'S O""0
jj	.g.

'!.
!
.e.
s :I	"'
'S t	..
.s	ae..
 	=i i	t !I
••	!	!	I
i	ii	!	0	3
i:IQ .9111	12
i":
..	.. I:	•"	i•i.	a
CJ	:ii	.
I>-
0  ..	i:	CJ







c,g,.;
(1)
a.

C;
0
Barnstable,	-        -         -        -       -     -      -     -        -        -        -      -
Berkshire, .	'350	875	t50	t	1      5         -     -        -       -       -      -
Bristol,	5,842	-         -      '35,000       87      625	-     -         -         -         -      -
Dukes,        .          -         -         -        -        -     -      -      -        -        -        -     -
Eaex,	-        -          -         -        -     -     -      -         -        -        -      -
FrankJin,	.     -     160,130           23,226         12,050	8     455	-      -        -        -        -     -
Hampden,  .	180	-        -      25,000       95     650	-     -      -        -      -        -
Hampshire,         .     -      -       1,785	-        -     -     1    '20,000      240,000	-      '8,000     20
Middlesex, •	-       -        -       160,150         90   1,201	-      -        -        -        -      -
Nantucket, .        .    -        -       -      10,000	1    100	-      -        -        -      -      - Nrfolk,       .    .   20,717	8,118	238        545,500      496   8,781	-      -        -        -      -     - Plymouth,  •	865		-         -        75,000        50      900	-      -        -       -        -     -
Suffolk,	-       -          -        82,000           2        24	-      -         -        -         -     -
Worcester, .   ·I 12,000        608,180        80,441      198,200       161    1,873          10                   59,931      567,925      fS0,786        43,623     52
Totala,	'39,954	776,808	flOo,740	l,077,900	941   9,614	11	'79,931	807,925	fS0,786	f51,623	72
e.. lfow 1ao.	t !fOIII.



00
1-3


tel
i,,f





fl.)





...
Q)
?
PALM LEAF HATS, &o.•	DRICKS.t	.	00
!!	g	0
.....
..
oa!
A	...	't	::I	i	i	.,;
..:....,
C O U N T I E S .
i:! .:!
a..;	l"l
a
:.l
..	a
a
a	;::
'C  u	:
I;'
a
.. ..	0	...
..	..
"	B	.9	B	"	: = ,!!	.9	a
..,	.,
0 :!!	"ii  ;	N  0	"ii
:a	..
..	.. "
z
""ii
..	i"i!
o B	0 .,;	g 1	0	3	"	3
0 ..
"	'•E.	B
0
0 ,..
"	1!	"ii	:i	C,
'E.
:,;	>	A	>	C,)
,rnstable,	-	-	-	-	-
,rk.shire,   .	1	$250	16	$800		$50 istol,	-	-	-	-	-
1kes,	-	-	-	-	-
r..	I,;
>-	t.)

















<O.
"N'.
:g_
CT
sex,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	14	6,631,000	54,900	32,650	8
,ntuckct, .	1	510	-	-	670	-	60	-	-	-	-
N ,rfolk,	2	-	-	-	-	23	330	2	200,000	1,600	500
p rmou th , .
{folk,
W,orcester, .

c::I
It,,,:I
'<
(';
--	-- ------
Totals,	2G	$262,093 J  195,973	$556,160	$184,120	346   2,474	103	88,495,000

738  1     6663,715
--
1,107
0
....-
(v
- 	
See Note 131.	t See Noto 1 .	i Tbla Include, 9'J !emalca at Plalnllcld.	CQ


-	- -

0"""
















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
t:z:I
I
rn.


,........,
00


'.aa.

-
2

2

-
...
(It
L-1







bd




bd
I
2

N.
19


...
rv
















































0
<g:

...,.;.
l
!
-
-
2
-
-
80
-
4
35
-
-


....:i
w










Q
td
1-1,
n
IflJ
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0








8et Nole 188,
20
-
-274
874




,-,
QO





WOODEN WA.BE.	OOLD PENB,
i	1	G t	j	1	...	!1 	i
...
i.:...,
O O U N T l E S .	s:! .:I	..,	ii: ..
i	"'	"..'
g"	-i-

t j"
0... .;	.;
s  !a	.. .;	8i
..0.. 	I
.$ .
..	0
..	!
0 :!
;..:
a	l	li
, I	5
o a	,I
.. l"i
3	,3
"	'a li
...	.	!










c,g,.
.Q"
CJ
0
........
(v
z	>	I;)	=	z	>	z	""	I•;)
Barnstable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	.	3	tl,800	05,200	. ,2,100	6	-	-	-	-	-	'	-
Bristol,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Franklin,   .	4	2,700	12,820	6,600	15	1	$800	2,018	82,000	$300	2
Hampden,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	6	88,950	72,800	33,500	73	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket,	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	1	75	160	60	1	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  .	2	6,180	10,300	8,100	14	-	-	-	-	-	-
Suffolk,	-	-	-	-	-	2	7,300	2,228	15,000	1,300	4
Worcester, .	7	26,760	78,275	--18,710	-41	-	-	-	-	-	-
Totals,	2S	870,465	8174,545	eas,510	150	3	'8,100	4,246	t17,000	fl,600	6

t;;
:
ij
I

'I



...

GOLD   LEAF.	-	LASTS   AND  SHOE-PEGS.
,,:I	'i	,;	§	...
-.i
II>-
"'"
l"l	,0	..	a	!'
C O U N T I E S,	Ii	"...'	Ii 1	g
;	i	a..
"Ii	"...'	;
:I	"
t- ..	'.S.
e	:	:i:l :I	"
.... <"I!
0 'C
0
J:;i   i	.;
1	'S  .'Cs
lZi
:= i
'a Ii
lZi	i!
I>-	c;.,
r:	0	a
Barnstable,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Bristol,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	4	16,280	45,600


00
1-3


ti:!
Franklin,  .
.
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	Ml
Hampden, .
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	-	-



o0·
aN..
CD
Q_
cr
'<
C;
Hampshire,.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, .	2	'27,400	2,350•	135,000	'7,000	7	9	5	6,600	74,000
Nantucket, .	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	-	-	-	-	- ·	-	-	1	1,300	26,000
Plymouth,   •	.	-		-	-		-		-		-		-	2·	5,900	43,800 Suffolk,	.		5	62,300	4,582•	102,800	28,800	50	11	1	S,000	72,000




t:rj
0	Worcestel', .
------- --
-	-	-	- --	7	13,320	75,004
......
ro
Totala,    .	.	7	180,700	6,032	1137,800   ·	135,800   I
Paollapl.
57	20	21	'36,460	837,804
,-....
Cl)
?
...
C)
c,,
i..:....



.c.o.













cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a





- 15,500
Q
td
I9'1
-
"C11








C O U N T I E S.

..
0 ..


•	...
3

....,	i
..
....

Barnstable, Berkshire,  •	. Bristol,	.
Dukes,	.
zo  a
Q,


II>
t=
Essex,	.	18	32,030	107,550	61,021	41,800	64	2	1,420	5,050	2,000
Fraukliu,	.	3	1,215	1,600	1,975	1,100	5	-
-	-	-
t=
..,<
Hampden, .
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	.
Middlesex, •
-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	•	-
3	16,000	48,500	15,500	9
Nantucket, •	.
cg	Nort'olk,	.
-	-	-	-

flJ

N.

CJ"
'<
(';
Plymouth,   •	.
Suffolk,	.
-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-
1	8,000	15,000	5,000	5
Worcester, •	9	11,175	103,118	23,625
Totals,   .	200	1369,741	1,130,896	1607,896
10,250
--·--
28	2	5,500	15,000	11,000	l3
,.......,
'230,337	539	13	138,720	1107,050	151,000	G 7
co


COJ'l'Il(8  A1(l)  BUBIAL O..UU.	PLA:.ortlCO KILLS, 8A88Ell, DOORS A11D BLnme.•
....
00
0)
?'
"	...	...
i	...	. .a ..	t
j	t	'-'
... I
......	•	1
.A
...
J = a	!
C O U:N T I E 8.	...	'o •	I
i..
.:1 JaI
...
I - f
5 .
... "'	a
)II   •	0
.. 1	...	li	a	J
... :j
0
.. ..	i

0 "C
•  0
0 ..
:,;
;a: I
J a
:I,;  i	;:
t•)
.a	'o
:0,;  :!
0
;=: l
;I
;:	a
0 ...	Cl
a  o	a
Barnstable,	.	11	'3,527	453	'4,950	'2,750	18	-	-	-	-	-	-	t
Berkshire,  •	4	2,280	401	4,557	8,600	6	10	110,200	114,500	119,900	116,500	81
Briatol,	.	7	8,917	1,819	18,420	18,300	17	4	3,000	3,400	6,900	14,800	15
Dukes,	.	3	325	40	750	825	5	-	-	-	-	-	-
Easex,	.	21	12,975	2,878	29,154	H,075	88	18	45,000	15,778	106,710	83,800	95
Franklin,  .	7	1,562	452	4,640	1,190	7	10	24,000	25,682	2,100	25,050	22
Hampden, .	6	12,525	915	17,600	9,450	12	0	22,300	20,700	19,550	18,500	85
Hampshire,.	3	440	100	1,000	320	3	4	18,500	11,800	9,850	24,150	20
Middlesex, •	.	12	10,560	2,934	17,114	7,815	29	15	252,242	191,794	44,688	133,000	133
Nantucket, •	.	2	192	154	1,317	300
Nort'olk,	.	13	9,418	1,172	24,130	8,950
a!l
-	-	-	-	-	-
5	·30,600	-	62,200	58,500	35
t:rJ
?l
cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
Plymouth,  •	12	8,779	782	8,{35	4,200	14	4	800	3,800	6,900	6,500	a
Suffolk,	8	33,305	3,845	56,700	35,400	31	6	23,750	50,000	21,000	13,800	39
Worcester, .	30,812	15,280	31	19	94,850	74,100	100
Totals,   .	.	126	f ll2,485	19,696	$219,579	1116,955	240	100	'480,067	1432,209	1319,198	$468,200	633
See Noto M7,



....
....




BOXES.•	RAZOB-8TROPS.
"00
i	.s..	"	....
j	.,;
...	,!,	:§
Cl,   ,l	..	i
:I	•
C O U N T I E S.	i	....,
i "	e a	I	.  s	-a.	..!	s	l
i.:.!. :.I.	0
fl: 1
.e	s"..'
I	:I	..
l	I	I
s..
I	o I
...
.! -	..
3	,3


0 ..
z S
:
.. 14	i
i
0
0 'C	= l
9 J	•" 	i
•  0
;: IIQ	-; IIQ	o -
>	t.)
.:	z
z	>	0
Barnstable,	-	. -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, ,	11	89,580	'22,874	-	'9,275	24	00
Bristol,	.		15	51,330	60,060	819,800	47,300	54	31	-	-	-	-	-	- Dukes,		.		-		-		-		-		-	-.	-	-	-	-	-	-	- - Essex,	.		22	145,600	175,300            48,815          82,450         85      60        -      -       -        -       -    -
Franklin,   •	.	11	3,500	6,600	1,750	3,400	8	10	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden,,,    . .	8	42,550	16,600	51,360	22,400	22	so	-	-	-	-	-	-
0	Nantucket, .	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
.-	-	I

cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
Hampshire,	.	10	10,395	17,690	-	10,720	13	1	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	25	124,583	170,057	24,600	87,800	08	39	4	t6,800	16,000	114,980	13,650	17
Norfolk,	.	13	64,663	98,818	12,500	40,350	66	2	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  •	43	80,840	161,872	-	56,790	131	1	1	8,600	10,800	0,000	1,500	3
Suffolk,	.	15	90,675	26,100	170,000	42,850	54    205	-	-	-	-	-	-
.flJ
0	Worcester, .
45  -
136,343--
232,701--
18,850--
81,275--
135  -
83	1	8,000	21,600	4,800	2,000	7
a	Totals,	218	1759,468	'978,762	'347,681	'484,160	600    412	6	113,400	48,400	'24,780	17,150	27
..NoM HS.
,......,
00



CX>
L.	I











00











cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a




Worcester, •	-



















See Not. W).
C•




flJ





'1
,i,..
<Q

l
..


-g..::i











•
cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
.
Ir,,
- ,........,

• S..Kollt :162.


ICE.•	l'IOILBS AND PBB8DVU.
....
00

L..I

C O U N T I E S,
!J!


1
ii	u	I.I.	"'
s JI
1	i i i
"'	£	d
'll j"
.. m
.s	a..
'& i
;P<  I	.s 	I
.l!I
g .e	i
i	,3	.a
a
!• Ii Ii	a• 	i
 		0 -	•	:"l!
:a	i:	a
"'	t.)	C	=
Barmtable,
4	650	tl,525	t5SO	St	-	-	-	- .	-
Berbhire, Bristol, Dukes, Essex,
ranklin,
•	4	2,410	2,465	2,840	5	1	f6,000	,10,000	'3,500 	4
.	9	42,300	S6,SOO	57,800	123	-	-	-	-	-
1	soo	450	200	1	-	-	-	-	-
32	70,773	83,825	67,850	148	-	-	-	-	-
•	3	1,120	800	800	3	-	-	-	-	-





1-q
Hampden, .	.	0	8,260	22,150	10,500	27	-	-	-	-	-
N	I
Hampshire,
2	550	1,100	1,775	s	1	500	S,500	1,000	2
Middlesex, .	.	30	472,850	550,400	855,150	583	8	S00,500	410,700	112,500	102
antucket, .	1	soo	300	-	2	-	-	-	-	-
<,Ci..
Norfolk,
Plymouth,
.	20	28,040	40,910	42,590	70	-	-	-	-	-
•	12	4,265	7,430	4,725	60	1	-	1,300	400	2

N.
CD
Q_
CJ"
'<
C"')
0
........
rv
Suffolk,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	6	173,000	365,000	185,000	144
Worcester, .	22	10,061	18,422	22,175	38	1	3,300	5,000	1,500	8
---
158	650,879	1775,077	8564,035	1,080	18	$489,300	'795,500	'303,000	257

See Note J.M.	t  Banda  employed  a portion  of the year.



°....'


. .
BAKERIES.•	DISTILLERIE8.t

..;i
c:,,
i	.u..	"'  .	j	'Z	L..
...	I!	...	.....
"C	s
"E "E'
...
3	..	g	,;	3
...
C O U N  T I E S.	..	"'	'
I..	a0
"'	§ _	i	§
g	l.!.	a0
-=	.0.	i	.9	a..
A..
...
iQ _g  •
...
e a '1i	..
.!l	a..
0	:l i	.. ;
3	.a	ll
il	... o "'	0	..	3	j
z0	,I   ..	!a	i•!.	;	-
0 0
z	';
i•!.
Barnstable,	.
Berkshire, .	.
:,..	t)	=	:,..
:,..	t)
Bristol,	.	15	167,707	227,535	43,425	72	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	l	4,000	-	5,950	3	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
1-3
ij
Essex,
. .	35	311,919'	439,379	73,500	130	1	9,500	-	-	350	24,750	15,000
Franklin,   .	1	15,000  I	20;000	8,000	7	4	1,243	18	1,815	26	3,252	1,510
Hampden,  •	.	3	41,000	59,000	12,200	18	8	46,740	14	1,575	45,068	123,532	2,800	1
Hampshire,	2	17,000	24,500	3,000	10	4	1,000	-	-	41	4,272	1,860	6




<O.
"N'.
:g_
CT
Middlesex, •	42 1	514,625	752,934	105,750	238	4	357,800	-	-	26,600	653,200	140,000	80
Nantucket, •	1	2,140	3,500	700	3	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	22	269,285	434,220	102,300	134	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  •	6	71,100	101,550	17,100	29	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
'<
(';
Suffolk,	59	601,967  i 1,004,430	163,3.50     238	4	205,500    6,730	112,000	20,000	235,000	160,000	36
0	Worcester, .	12	193,200
258,3Q.O	44,700	5
....-
(v
Totals,
1
203  112,231,043  ;1a,359,84a  I 181,075
• S.. Note 166.	t S.. Note 157,
10	,-....
-	00
...
..:......



i










c.g..
er
'<
(';
a

t;


td
I?'J

c.,,






















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
..











8H Note 160.

-.:i 01
"""









8
Cl
!z







,......,
()I)
I-' 00 Oc.>,,
..:...,










I9'l
cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a	• Bee Nole 161.	t  In the cown of  Jl&rnat&ble, In addition to three ..-11 here  llloladed, there 11N llx&Joo.ta emploJed.

<::•

....
Cl)

















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a













See Note 182.	t See Note 168.	i See Note 18'.

•
I
,-....
00
Cl)
?



STONE AND  MARBLE  QUARRIES,•
---------------------I	LIME Jt1LN8.t
...
:	!	t
-	I	.. 1!	I	;
..:......


C O U N T J ES.


"	... ..


:i;i
=	-a2'
I	.e.
;.e:.s. t"Z'	'o
.5!	i
a	o:'S:	:'a
-3-
.,_ ,,;:i  =_!!I    -
.= ;
.. .i	.a

o	-; s	-;
.	:r.	>	>	t.>

& 114
=	I
3 II	>	s	i

I




Irn

cg

-
a	• Ill Note le&.	t S. S0411 188.
#
..


'c.-. 00
















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a


















Bee Not.e 167,
;
•

,-,
00
c,,


FIREWOOD AND BA.RX.•	CHARCOAL.t	COAJ. Al'fD  OU BBDS.
....
00
...	..
..;.
0;	•
l	al
.s ,e;      .
!	al
L.J

C O U N T I E S.
!... t
...
1	a  .
"'
ll	..	t	..
e	.9'	6	I
,II	1	I
""" • .a
.:.;.	ll
.s	.a.
,.!I. '.!.
'a	-"
.a.
=...
o  8 e
.s	C.a..
0
'E	C>
i	..	"
;	0	;1J	3
0 ,2
--	c:.,
•r,.	c•:.,	C•II	i j
r•",.	c•":.,'
=	:i
old
r,.	c:.,
CII	•
Barnstable, .	9,018	150,618	'8,961	228	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire,  •	. 64,943	269,317	60,502	289	942,105	tll7,945	f66,993	229	9	tl47,200	'79,900     173
Bristol,	.	40,265	149,481	24,870	306	57,750	8,754	1,375	34	-	-	-	-
Dukes,	.	1,240	9,380	-	15	-	-	-	-	7	3,700	4,000	5
Essex, .	.	.  35,090	190,234	26,790	182	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
-	-	-
td
i-<







cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-
-	-	-	-
----	-	-----	-
16	1150,900	'83,900	178

Bee Note 168.	t See Note 1611.

.
It21

c,,
cc


'1
CORN AND OTHER BROOMS.•	l'ABllS,	8
"a" oii 1	.;
.....	..;	...,..;.	,; 'O	"'	..;	a  .	E -a
C O U N T I ES.
e e !l	8
t
:	0	g	A
.
I!	!.,J
=a.
= "'	-  .C3
'"	'S e	.!:!	2
...
.3	-a ::-
0'" ....	8...	'i
'" .!l
S j	=	00
...
ii	1:1 3
'" .. s
0..	.. a	:;
• e	O..D•.
0 ..	..
.11
0'"   !.. .	-a  "	L@
"	I.. ....	.. e
:O.. 0	•
"   0	i•i	"	0
,I .!I .!I
I	.. e	"'































0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
I>	I>	0	=	IZI	-<	I>	-<	p.,	-<	-<
37,965	22,264
139,002	68,126
Bristol,	-	-	-	-	-	4,264	237,558	11,545,481	94,078	5,704	64,688	9,598
Dukes,	-	-	-	-	-	S68	36,032	712,776	25,494	629	15,198	S,436
Essex,	-	-	-	-	-	3,807	187,980	12,186,222	124,474	5,574	51,578	4,835
Franklin,  .	90,500	32,757	15,415	13,725	19	3,533	370,793	8,045,751     191,978	5,197	104,954	50,222
Hampden, •	22,700	11,168	7,465	2,075	5	3,427	316,403	9,450,806	165,017	4,851	88,512	35,785
Hampshire,.	. 605,271	129,716	84,000	53,000	99	3,722	323,229	11,033,790	183,098	5,947	69,041	21,101
Middleaex,  .	.	-	-	-	-	-	6,456	412,859	26,660,189	207,015    10,220	129,742	13,818
Nantucket, •	-	-	-	-	-	111	6,175	140,735	6,167	245	8,513	500
Norfolk,	.	.  45,000	9,000	5,000	2,500	10	2,954	181,439	18,852,239	91,263	4,431	46,322	8,437
Plymouth, •	.	240	80	65	50	1	4,205	235,682	9,814,444	10!,987	4,924	68,405	8,021
Suffolk,	41,400	13,200	8,850	2,700	14	64	4,422	989,400	8,838	322	511	-





00


Q
t:d
Worcester, .
0
28,212
-
9,300	0,279	2,150	6	9,420	839,185	29,170,410
45-3-,711 -12,485-
205,594	41,296
Totals,	•   906,523    12'  08,021
1128,849  j 177,000  /157	46,904  13,707,895 1152,946,658   1,937,378    68,636.  1,030,925	282,489
S..Note ln.
,....,
00
0)


WOODLAND.	INDIAN  CORN.	BROOK  COU.
....
00
Cl)
..:..,
;•l	i	E	.,;


,I
C O U N T I E S.
i	.....	,5	f
e	'i!	.;
t...	0	"	!!I
I	=..
I	dl	=
-.<.I.	.,;	.-<.I	=
0	..	.a ...	0	.!!   e	'o
C	.. e	0	'o	..	0	" !!I	0

.,;
-; I
d	0	•"
.,;	g =
•	!!I =	'"iii
<D  -----
C,
:,;
:,;	Ill	>	:,;	"'°	>	=	>























<O.
"N'.
CT
-
-


Nantucket,.	705	0,500	236	7,575	10,433	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	74,304	1,993,731  I	3,152	88,382	140,895	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  •	161,271	2,725,247	4,182	122,697	198,471	-	-	-	-	-
Sull'olk,	40	4,000	26	952	1,045	-	-	-	-	-
,vorcester, •	176,586	5,108,620	11,878	893,193	605,483	-	-	-	-	-

It,rj
'<
(';
0
....-
(v
----
Totals,	•	1,010,139
23,405,122 I
---- ------------
67,588	1,986,685	$2,905,357	500 I  290,185	147,259
26,632  I ,11,22B




...:i
Cl)




C)
t,;>

















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a

00
1-i








·;I
rn


,.....,
(:,:,


BUCKWHEAT.	OATS.	MILLET.	A.LL OTJlU OILUN.
....
00

i.'...l
!	..!.!	ia,
"	c"f
.;	..!.!	.;	..!.!	.s
C O U NTI ES.	;	t	;
g	!	;	s	I
.	u	:I	u	....	...	:I
u	i.:.,	..
41	IQ	...	41	IQ	...	41	IQ	...	41	IQ	...
...	...	.0.	...	...
0..
0..	0

z	z	I>-	z	z	I>-	z
z0	.I>.-	zcl	z0
0	0	0	0	:,	0	0	0
0	0	;";	cl	cl	"	"
Barnstable,	.	-	-	-	221	4,8Ii	13,951	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, •	1,610	26,935	'26,187	6,623	138,332	139,694	-	-	-	13	257	11,153
Bristol,		88	582		753	1,853	68,284	45,428	-	-	-	13	800	1,320 Dukes,	.	-	-	-		228	4,466	.2,614	-	-	-	-	-		- Essex,		11	125		172		907	21,820	17,019	-    -     -      84          302            928
Franklin,	142	1,800	1,624	2,324	67,359	40,967	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	1,270	15,411	15,005	3,106	54,780	49,736	-	-	-	14	83	438
Hampshire,	671	6,232	6,429	2,361	55,492	45,357	-	-	-	13	239	453
Middleaex, •	182	2,624	2,580	2,523	53,346	41,178	28	126	1498	47	861	2,721





0
<,gr:
(I)
a.
Nantucket, .	.	-	-	-
Norfolk,	40	498	640
Plymouth, •	40	751	733	735	16,261	15,064	1	25	60	-
Suffolk,
Worcester, .	.
-
4,685
-	-
(;
0
...-
(v
-------------
Totals,	-	4,294	60,)50	f59,099

28,819  1	65,997
-----	--	----
'583,908	57	653    ,2,128	255	8,957    112,816


. BERDSGRA88 SEED.	CLOVER SEED•	POTATOES.•	TURNIPS.t
---1
Q)
..	..9.
cl	cal	.9	,l	.!I	cl
C O U N T I E S .	f:	"a
;..	u
1	..
1	...	..
a	!.	a"' 	I
u....,.:	I."Q..	.,	...	..	..	.u.	..
.<.

l:Q	0
0	0	:,	0	0	:,	0	0
:,	0
'o	•"
 		 	z0	z0
z0	z0	•>	z0
z0	•>
z0	z0	>"
Barnstable,  •	-	-	-	-	-	-	1,087	47,521	13'1,072	105	H,947	17,990
Berkshire, Bristol, Dukes, Essex,.
Franklin, Hampden,
M
•	15	63  f357	9	15       1356	3,763	471,802	214,876	82	21,205	6,067
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	3,421	287,839	222,750	368	100,988	39,824
-	-	-	-	-	-	207	16,234	11,657	75	10,966	4,037
.	2	10	50	-	-	-	4,847	879,232	820,057	750	41,379	14,606
-	15	80	-	-	-	2,341	251,920	105,622	40	15,604	. 3,652
•	4	8	45	5	5	62	3,474	305,051	181,800	· 428	76,107	18,455





t:d
I
Hampshire, .	6	26	109	1	2	6	2,823	277,728	143,047	115	27,110	6,306
iddlesex,
•	1	12	36	-	-	-	6,265	513,764	483,175	430	85,192	83,070
Nantucket,  .	-	-	-	-	-	-	46	4,807	4,856	27	4,936	1,787
t:z,j
<,Ci..
N.
CD
Q_
CJ"
'<
C"')
Norfolk, Plymouth, Suffolk,
-	-	-	-	-	-	2,879	230,815	271,831	187	37,522	14,643	rn
.	-	-	-	-	-	-	2,8U	218,026	163,708	157	88,847	19,707
-	-	-	-	-	-	118	16,402	18,150	5	2,650	1,349
0	Worcester, •	18	66	314	-	-	-	8,046	804,400	486,606	256	56,530	15,731
----- ------ ------------	------
........
rv
Totals,
-
41	200     1091	15	22     li24	42,158	8,826,540	12,607,202	8,184	683,983	1
-
186,724
,.......,
00
Bee No&• 187.	t Bee Note 188.
.....
0)

...:....





en


C

t:tl
i,,<
It::t
9)

cg
N.


CJ"
'<
(';
a





....    188.	t See ••180.





i S..Not.191.




t Bee Note !la.
-
'1
Cl)

,

i..



GARDEN  SEEDS.•      HARKET  OARDEN'O.t	BEETS.*	l'LAX.S
..;i
en en
I	e	.:.! 0  :	:I 5	!..
C Q U N T I E S.
...	.. ..	1
:I	0.. f
""	.s.	.e.
.....
....	.....	"'
,U J	cl
:	..
!...
.a
..	..
cl	.;
:I	0	I
<	0	<
0
.. :I
.0.	0    "'
0
<OI
"o
0..
i	.0.
z0	;":
0
z0	I>
! f "' R	0	"	j l	0	"	"
:,;	Ir.	:,;	I>	"'"











cg:
N.
(D
Q.
,!l
Barnstable,	-	-	37	t2,996	18	2,032	11,036	-	-	-	-	-	-
Berkshire, •	3	11,140	21	3,624	19	6,930	3,286	'2,004	39	6,111    11,043	184	1449
Bristol,	-	-	303	29,668	41	12,473	6,699	-	-	2	1	-	-
Dukes,·	-	-	1	170	3	525	243	-	-	-	-	-	-
Essex,	10	3,423	468	89,058	127	23,861	20,589	4,088	T	-	-	-	-
Franklin,	l	25	-	-	1	411	154	. -	-	-	-	-	-
Hampden, .	-	-	82	12,570	51	274	7,106	170	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	-	-	15	3,460	3	2,407	1,061	-	-	-	-	-	-
Middlesex, •	17	4,765	2,340	490,311	167	41,4.29	42,054	2,725	-	-	-	-	-
Nantucket, •	.	-	200	10	800	3	1,115	424	200	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	10	927	255	57,278	93	16,302	8,827	180	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  •	2	630	72	10,262	52	7,175	7,118	-	-	-	-	-	-
Suffolk,	-	-	20	2,500	16	4,460	2,340	-	-	-	-	-	-

en



t:d
;8
(';
0
Worceater, •	.	s	430
--111	19,453
-88	19,499	8,97(,	196	-	-	-	- ---
Totals,	45!	111,540	S,735	'722,150	682	138,893	1109,907	19,563	39	6,113	11,044	184	1449
8ee Note 198.	f Bee Note 19i,	l Bee Note 196,	t Bee Note 196,
,........,
00
?



BOPS.	TOB.lCCO.	IIOBOBUII.	BABKBT WILLOW,
...
e>
wc:.n
g.i	-3
,gl	...	..	..

C O U .N T I E B.
u
"..	ui	"D
i..
e
iii
...	f	g
..,	""
0	...
...,	0
..,	...
...	•	...
"..".	•	...	•	0


0	0	0	0
0	-a	0	0	0	-a	0
Ill	I>	:,;	:..
......-
:,;	0	 	 		:,;
Barnstable,	-	-	-	Ol	860	190	-	-	-  .	-	-

ti,..
Berbhire, . Briltol,	.
1116	Oi	120
-	-	-
00
1-i




















<O.
"N'.
:g_
CT
'<
(';
0
....-
(v
Dukes,	.	.	-	-	-	l	800	150	-	-	-	-	-
Es.ex,	.	-	-	-	5	4,850	1,076	-	-	-	l	40
Franklin,  .	81	9,778	2,630	1,953	8,143,799	516,210	· 8	896	399	-	-	td
Hampden, .	.	-	-	-	-1,037	1,569,643	308,445	-	-	-	-	-
Hampshire,	.	4	2,500	625	2,409	4,394,925	751,654	-	-	-	5	500
:Middleaeii:; •	79	85,916	11,890	6	8,405	732	-	-	-	8	560
Nantucket, .	150	60	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Norfolk,	.	-	-	-	i	775	248	-	-	-	-	-
Plymouth,  •	-	-	2	1,646	701	-	-	-	3	60
Suffolk,	.	.	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Worcester, .	51	18,556	6,622	I	36	40,218	7,036	l	60	60	-	-
Totals,	.  27	93,078	ta2,os8    I  s,6111	9,361,641	11,616,896	91	598	1575	16	11,180
,1


""I
Q>
.	00
















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a































Bee .Moc.	.
>tp
00
1-3

C
1-3
t=
g
z
:::a
-


r....
00
 	.	
..	..
....
00
0)
<:,,
a.:..,






































0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0
.c.o.

























...liotea D-207.	t No aop, dea&loJad by C&Dli:ar worm.






00


Q

I
-
""1
0)
<Q


·-:i
-:i
0











:















0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0











W•& Boabal'J re&aru 2,9 poudl ol 8&&oo7 woo.I, ba& 11-noftlae.
t:,::j
lo,<
i
rn


-	,.....,.
?



HORSES.	A811E8 A.ND IIULES.	OXEN  AND  BTEUS.	COWS, B&l!'EB8, .AND OTUll 8TOCJt.
i	"'	!. :; ...	g §	-=
...
a,
QI
L-1
Ii	5.
.. -	s•	u	I!	..
t ...
=0	=...
;	... '3
;.. 5..
!!I
'o !	..
... '	:!
C O U N TI ES.	e	0
..	0  0
e ...
I!	8 I!



0
II;
I	-a	" "'
-a ... <id	" "'

0	"'
•
• -:i
...	0
-41 i	0 :ii
0... .....	"'  ,2	"'
0 "
'o i	=...
o =	0  "'
"
0	•	0 :ii	-; 5
e	0 ,8 ci	" a	0	ci
" "	• ii!;

Barn.table, Berbhire, .	. Bristol,	.
Dukes,	.
E-x,	.
Franklin, .
Hampden, .
Hampshire,	.
Middlesex, .
Nantucket, • Norfolk,	.
0	Plymouth, •
(0
>	z	>	t'1	>	Ir.	· >	>












.







b:!
It;rj
rn
<g:
;;;·
Suffo' lk,	.	6,667	1,283,440	12	1,800	32	12	4,250	458	101	24,648 	810
a.
!Z	- -
185	7,.f19	4,883	790,797
-81,306--
8,164    1,611,904	67,120
C')
0
106	19,005	29,096	20,526   '3,064,744	143,286	31,100   t6,687,634	'290,775
......
......
•
•















































0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0
..









See Note 210.


...
:..

NI








t;;

Q
Ir,.i
r.... 00 O>


!U N T I E S.	...  l"llI...


.0..  ...	...

3	aa	.I..


i	.e.	..s.	I
...
l
- •

i..
"
0	.a.	I
.,,
...
0	ii
"	I	a	"..


Clo
;":
0	0 ..	"	"















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
-	-	-	-	-	1,882	t57,372

-	-	-	-	-	360	3,836







S..Note m.	t S.. Note 218.
i
Ifll

Cit



-
l'OULTBY.	EOOS.	BONEY.•	BEESWAX.•	UNEBlJKEUTED  ARTICLES.

.,
., "
:.,..
cl	.s	.	i	.;	e	5
C O U N T I E S.
.I.	.e.
.0".
.I.
.IQ.
.I.	r•..
- l" !
I.a.
a .e
.. - f t
Ill	.. cl
.  t" .,
'; I "'  .
0.,
0.,	0	0
0.,
0  g	'o
_ o.,
:"	"	0..	1
i	i ...
.a..
:3	... e	a
3 1	f  :i s
a	0  " "
,I	,I ...	• a .!I
::,,.	I>-	.	I>-
Be  :shire, •	14,582	16,024	12,661	8,144
I	tl,718t	7,811
1,959	'2,578	'855
B	1stable,	'3,860	t69,612	180	165









.
cg
N.
-	'3,572	-	-	-
Irn
p:	100th,   •	.
28,286
58,221	8,998
1,847
112	66
84,012	85
85	4,605
CJ"
'<
(';
s	,lk,	.
568
75	-	-
-	-	4,640	-	-	-
0	W,
ceater, .
-41,049	89,426	17,288	5,429	616	157	82,666	61	110	11,509	•
a	,tals,   .	. '218,751	'378,229	80,856	'28,224	2,454	t2,457	'278,228	5,455	'7,020	'59,399
S..Nott 216,	t Value of  8-wunturne4 fmD lllDldai., bu$ 110 •elsh'-
,.-..,
1865.   1	NOTES  TO  .ABSTRACT.	775
N OTE S  TO ABSTR A CT.	•



(1.) Corro11.-In Eutz Coullly, Methuen and Rockport give only the number of 1pindlee, and amount of capital invested; Salisbury  omite capital lnveeted.  In Hamp­ den County, Ludlow omits to return grou value of etock used; a1ao value of cloth, of peliase wadding, and capital inveeted. In Middlutz County, Newtou omil8 capital inveeted. In NorfoDr. County, Foxborough omil8 grosa value of stock used, capital innlted, and hands employed; Sharon omits nnmber of spindle,, value of cloth, and capital invested, · In PlytnllUIA County, Carver omits number of spindles, and quantity of cotton consumed; Middleborough  omite gross value of etock used  and capital  invested.
In Worcwr c-ty,Boylston omits grou value of stock used; Oxford and Sturbridge omit capital invested,

(9.) CALICO A1'D Moussn.uo: DB LAlllB.-In Eutz Couty, Lawrence  omita to  return value of mouaeeline de laine before printing; also value of goods before and after bleaching and coloring. In Middluui County, Acton omita the number  oC  yards  printed, ·and Medford  the  amount  of  capital  invested.

(3.) BLBACBlllO  A1'D COLOBlllo.-In Middlutz  County, Lowell  and \altbam omit  to return the value of goods both before and after bleaching and coloring; in the case of Lowell the remark Is made that "the goods are invoiced from various partiee and no value " received with them. In Worcwr  County, Webster  omits capital invested, but  the remark Is made that "the capital inve.ited is connected with the cotton mills," returned  under  Section I.

(4.) SPOOL Corro11.-In Ply,nqutA Cointty, the town of Plymouth omits to return the quantity 111&11nfactured.

(Ii.) WooLLBK,-In Eutz Cbunty, Amesbury, Hamilton and Newbury omit  to return  the amount of capital invested. In Franklira County, Warwick reports only two item,:  the pounds of woollen yarn manufactured not made Into cloth, and the value of the eam­ all the other questions are unannered; the  towns  of  Orange  and  Rowe make no record of the pounds of acoured wool consumed or gross value ofetock; Rowe also omitaamount of capital inveeted, In Ha.,nptlot County, Chicopee omita groes value of etk; Monson omits capital invested, and number of malee and females employed; Palmer omits eeta of woollen macbinery,also capital inveeted, and females, (If any,) employed. In Hamp,Aire County, Middlefield omlta capital Invested. In Jtiddlt.,u, lbunty, Acton omits eels of woollen machinery, and the number of pounds of scoured wool consumed; Ashland omite pounds of scoured wool coneumed, and gross value of etock need; Billerica and Weetrord omit capital inveeted. In Notfo1Jr. County, Dorcbeeter returns the value of caseimerea manufactured, but not the number of yards, In Pl Couty, the retume from the town of Plymouth give the number of yerds of flannel  or blanketing, but not the value.  In Worcuter County, Oxford and Royalston omit capital lnveeted, and number of malea or Cemalee employed; Southborough omita eeta of machinery, and pounds of ecoured wool
CODIDDled.

(7,) AIIUIOil WoltBTB»s.-In Norfo1Jr. Coeatty, Canton omita . the quantity of wonted goods manufactured.
776	NOTES  TO  .ABSTRACT.	[1865.
(9.) SRODDT.-ln Hampdffl <mmty, Monton omita pollDda of ahoddy manufactmed, and value or the  same.

{10.) Hosu:RT.-ln Eav County, Hamilton omlta amo11Dt of capital Invested and nnoiber of bands employed. It ahoald be stated that  the  "woollen  mill " and  the "hosiery establishment," retnmed ander the heads of Woollen and Hosiery, respectively, are but one concern, known u the Agawam Woollen Milla, formerly uaed for the man• factare of woollen cloth, bat daring the war for the manafactare of anny and ribbed socks. The demand for said aocks having ceased, the mills will now probably be employed for some other manafactare. Nanttid:d does not give qaantity manafactared nor  capital Invested .	•

{12.) BAUIORAL S1tIBTs.-ln Berbhire  Coonty, Hancock  makea no mention of  valae of 1tock used, capital in-rested, nor number of bands employed.

(15.)   H&.U>  Nna, &c.-In	Couaty, Ipswich omits amo11Dta of capital invested.

(18.) Jn P111s, &o.-In Brwtol County, Attleborough makes no return of  the quantity and description  or articles  manafactared  .

(20.)   Lrl'ln.-In  Hampden   Corndy,  one  eatabllahment   omit.a   the   valae   of   goods manufactured  and  amonnt of  capital  invested.

(25.)   DRIU8  Ta1J1J011G1.-I0  MidJlutz   County, Westford  omits  the  value  of  stock
u,ed.    In Plylt,ou/A  County, the town of  Plymouth  makes the same omission.

(29.)    PIO Ino1'.-ln Franklin  County, Greenfield  faile to report  the  number of tone or pig iron manufactured, valae of  the same, and number of  bands employed.

(30.) HOLLOW W.&.BB A1'D C.&8TIICGt1.-In FranJ:lin COtlnly, Greenfield omits the number of furnaces; the value of stock used, and amount of capital invested;  Sbelbume  omits the number of tone of hollow ware and other castings manufactured.

(37.) Auo11Rs, Bin, &o.-In Worceater County, Sturbridge omits the value of stock Died.

(40.) MKCRA11tcs' Toou.-Jn Worcueer lbtntly, Sturbridge makes no retum of the value of  stock  need.

(48.) PLOUGB8 A1'D AGRIOULTUB<lL lJ1PLEllE1'Tt1.-In Berbhire COtlnty, Olia omit the value of stock uaed, the value of other  Implement.a,  and  the  amount  of  capital invested.

(62.) CoPPEB.-ln  B•ffoll& County, Boston  does  not  return  the ,alue of  stock  need. In Worcuter County, Lancaster makes the same omiseion.

(57.) DuTTol'ls.-In Brulol Coa,atg, Attleborough makes no returns of capital invested nor of bands employed.

(83.) PAPEB.-ln Hamp,Mre Courtly, Amherst does not return the number of tone of atock conaumed. In Aruldluu lbunty, Pepperell reporta one manufactory u making no ratuma, and one that omita the amonnt of cepltal Invested. In Norfoll& C01111ty, Roii:bury omits tons of atock conaumed.
1865.]	NOTES  TO  ABSTRACT.	777

(67.) Pr..t.MO-FOBTEII AMD OTBU HUSICAL ffl8TBUHBlffll.- Of the returns from eigh­ teen localities, the majority indicate that the manufacture is restricted to "detached parts  (only) of piano-fortes." Included in this majority, Lynnfield, Eue:o County, omits men­ tion of the value of stock used, and aeveral towns omit to state th·e number of bands employed.

(68.) PBINTINO AND NBWBPAPERs. -In Berbhire County, Pittsfield omits to state the amount of capital invested in the production of  newspapers  and  periodicals.  In  Hamp­ lhirt  County, Am4en1t  makes the same omiuion.

(69.) Boo1tBllllDEBIB8.- ln Eue:o County, Methuen omits the amount of capital invested.

(70.) Boo1t-PUBUBHU1G. -ln Eue:o County, Andover omits mention of capital invested and the number of bands 8D1ployed. .Io Hamplhire County, Northampton makes no retlllIIS of  the same items.

(74.)    DAGUKRRJLUf   AND  PHOTOGRAPHIC  EsTABLI8Bl\lBIITB. -In: Berbhire   County,
Lee does not return the value of stock used.  In Worctmr County, Winchester makes the
same omission.

(77.) Loo1Ul10-GLABSE8 AND PICTURE FRAllES.-ln  Middle,e:e  County,  Holliston makes no returns of capital invested, nor number of  bands  employed.  In Worcuter  County, Warren makes the aame omis,ions.

(80.)  Bauanu.-In Brut.ol County, Attleborough, and Royalston in Worcuetr Co1111ty,
omit to give the number of brushes   manufactured,

(81.) SADDU!S, IIARNBSSB8, &c., &c.-In Berbhire  County,  Otis  does  not  return  the amount of capital in'l"eeted ; Lee and Pittsfield omit number of articles made. Nim­ tucket makes no report of capital invested.  In Hampdm  County, Brimfield  omita amoant  of capital invested. In Worctlier County, Warren gives neither the amount of capital invested, nor the number  of  bands  employed.

(8-l.) HATS  AND  CAPB.-One establishment in  Btrkahire  County, and  one in the city of Worcester,   Worcuter County, make no returns of  the number made.

(87.) SnIP YARDs.-In MidJ/le,e:e County, Medford omits to return amount of capital invested.  In BuffoUc County, Chelsea makes the same omission.

(88.) BoATs.-In Brial/Jl County, Attleborough does not return the value of  the  materials used, the capital invested, nor the number of bands employed.

(89.) MA8T8 ,um SP..t.11&-ln Plyr,wt,IA County, the town of Plymouth makes no mention  of  the amount  of  capital invested.

(90.) 8An..e.-In PlynwutA  County, the town of  Plymouth [does not  return the amount of capital invested.

(92.) RAILROAD CABS, &c.-In Kidtllue:o County, Stoneham fails to report carrimgee made, and value  of  the aame.

(93.) C..t.RRIAOIII W1111111:u. -In Worcuter County, the city of Worcester  omits the  Taine of  stock aaed.

(100.) Cwmmo.-In Plynu,uth County, llanhfield duea not return the valne ofatock, nor the amount ot capital invested.
98
778          NOTES   TO  ABSTRACT.	(1865.
(103.) ltl.ABBLB AllD Sron.-Thlrty..four localities  make  no  ret1l111.1  or the description and q11antity of articles manufactured, In Bri.,tol C<,tmty, Norton omits the amount of capital invested.
(105,) SPll:RH .um TALLOW CANDLEB.-ln Berbhire County, the returns from Lee and Sheffield, in FMt:1: C<nmty, those from South Danven,, and in Worct.ter COURty, those lrom  Brookfield,  omit the amount  or capital invested ,  In BerbMre  Conly, Sheffield, and in Euez Couttty, South Danvera,do not state the number of hands employed. The South­ bridge ( Worce.ter County) returns specily the number of pound, of tallow candles  made,  and their value; but particu!an, u to value of  stock  used, the amount  of capital invested,  and the number of hands employed  are included  in  the returns relating to the manufacture  of  soap in the same place.

(106.) SOAP,-The returns from Dorchester, Norfo11' C<1Uflly, lfarahfield, PlpOfllJi County, and Lancuter,  Uxbridge   and  Winchendon,   Worcuter  c-ty, omit  the  value  of
,tock  used,    Norton  and  Raynham,  Bri,tol  County, Beverly,  ».a  lbelllly,  Chicopee,
Hampden County, Belchertown , Hamp,Aire County, Medway, Norfo11' County, Marahfield, Ply,,wutla Coanty, and Douglas, Upton and Uxbridge, Worcuta- Cotmty, omit the amount of capital inveeted. Raynham, Brwtol County, Beverly, Eu. o-ty,lled-y, NorfoO: COUflly, Man,hfield,  Plymoutli  l'oullty, and  Douglu  and Uxbridge,  Worcuur	.
omit  the number  of  hands employed.
(107.)   Sn:RH, WRAL11:, LABD, oa Lmen» On..-In SIIJ'o11'  a,..,,, Chet-  omits
the gross value  of  stock consumed.

(109.) BOJLDmo, &o.-In &ffo/J; Coaty, Chelaea doee not give the value of materials, nor the number of hands employed. In Worcuter C°""'fl, Uxbridge returna only the number of buildinge erected, and value of  the same.

(110.) BLACUIIITR Saon.-In HampMire Couniy, Hadley omit, the value of work done. In &ffo/J; a-ty, Chelaea omit. the amount of capital invested; and  North  Chelsea the value of work done.

(112.) Amle.-In Bri.,tol Coumy, the retnrna from Freetown apecily that part of the buaineu ii making sights for government ri11ea; l'{ew Bedford omits mention of the num­ ber of establishments, and the value of atock used, In Hampden Covnty, Springfield returna do not include the arma manufactured at the United States' armory, which turned out np-rda of 300,000 muaketa, and employed upwards of 300 hands. In Hamp,lure County, Northampton ret1l111.1 only two items, vis,: value of all other arms manufactured, and amount of capital Invested in the buaineu. In Midtlleat:z County, Chelmsford omita to return the value of atock uaed. In Worce.ier County, the retnrna lrom Fitchburg omit mention of the valne of atock aaed, but remark, "Unknown-famished by the State;" and alao the value of cannon manufactured , but remark alao in thia inatance, "Unknown­ made for the  State."

(113.) CRAUUI All1> SB'ITUS.-ln Worcuter Coumy, Gardner returns the number of females employed aa 1,85!1, bnt It ia added that thia includes children; the number of children  aa distinguished  lrom  female adults is not  stated.

(114,) CABJJUT MA:iror.&CTOBUUl.- ln Ff'Ollldin Counly, the returna from Bowe omit mention of  the value of  chain,  and  cabinet ware  manufactund.   In  Hamp,l,.ire  lbenltf,
Huntington makes no mention of the amount of capital invested ; Williamsburg omits the
number of hand, employed,

(115.) RATTAll,-ln JlidtllUt:1: COIIIIJ y, the retnrna from South Beading  state that  30,000 yards of matting are included In the aum of 13117,000 apeclded aa the value of the gooda manufactured.
1865.]	NOTES  TO  ABSTRACT.                      779
(116.) Tu. W..lllE.-lo Barmlable l'ouflty, Falmouth omita the returns of the value of st.ock used, of tin ware manufactured, and the amount of capital invested. Io Hamp,hire r.ounJy, Huntington omits mention of the amonnt of capital invested. Io Middluu: COUflty, Bedford omita the value of tin ware manufactured; from Brighton and Malden the number of bands employed is not given. In Norfol/r; C<1Unty, Franklin omita to return the number of bands employed; Quincy returns state that the business there is principally repairing.  In Worcuter l'Cllmty, U:r.bridge omita the amount of capital invested.

(117.)   Coxss.-In Suffol/r; COtlflty, Boeton, and in  Worcuter l'OUflly, Leominster, omit
to state the dozeu of comba manufactured.

(118.) WBITB LBAD, &c.-In FMu: Counly, Glouceater does not return the value of stock used, the amount of capital invested, nor the number of bands employed.

(123.)    FL017RlllO  M1LL&-ln Franklin  C<1Unty, Buckland omlta the returns ofamount of capital invested, and the number of bands employed; Montague omits the value of flour manufactured.    In Hamp,Aire  Counly, Greenwich  omita  the  amount  of  capital  invested ·
and the number of bands employed; Huntington omita the value of grain ground ; and Prescott the amount  of  capital  invested,   In Middk,e:.e  l'Otlflty, Bedford, and  in NorfolJ,
c-,,, Medfield,  make  no  return,  of  capital  invested,  nor  of  the  number  of  banda
employed.   In Plymouth County, llanhfield  omita  the  amount  of  capital  invested. In
Worcuter County, Oakham doea not return value of grain ground, nor amount of capital invested.	·

(124.) TA1'XINO  ..ll!ID  C11BllTl1'0,-ln Baf'flltahk  County, Wellfleet  does  not  return the amount of capital inveated, nor the number of bands employed. In Brvld COtlflty, Attleborough omita amount of capital in'l'ellted, In Hampdffl COt#llf , Agawam makes no
retul'IIS of the value of leather tanned; Monson omita the value of at.ock used; and South­ wick  omits the value of  leather ta.uned  and  curried,     In Middluu:  c-,,, Aabby  omita
the amount of capital invested; Medford, the value of leather tanned. In NurfoU: C<1Unly, Dorchester faile to report the number of bides curried; Stoughton, the number of bides curried; West Roxbury does not give  the  nlue  of  leather  tanned  and  curried.  Io Wurcuter COU11ty, Leominster omits the number of bides tanned and curried, and the amount of  capital invested.

(125.) BBLTmo.-Io Berk,/iire CounJy, Pittsfield omits the  quantity manufactured, and the amount of capital invested.

(127.) BOOTB ilD Suou.-ln Hamp,Aire Cotmlf , Amherst does not give the groea value of stock used, In Middluu:  County, Leicester  omits the groaa value  of  atoct  and the amount of capital invested; Westford omita the value of boota and aboee manufac­ factured.    In Ply,,toutlt  COflllllg, Scituate omita  to return  the amonnt of capital invested.

(130.) P.a.LJI LBAP,-ln Ha.mp,Aire County, Amherst omits the value of  the  leaf prepared.

(131,) PALII LBAJ' HATS, HOODS, BolllCBTB.-ln Frlllfldin County, Erving returna only value of the gooda manufactured, and the number of males employed. In Middluu: COflllllg, Townaend retllfll8 only the quantity of goods manufactured and the value of the eame, but it it remarked that the work it done at home  by females,   Nantacut  omita to
give  the  quantity and value  or the  gooda manufactured.   Io  Norfoll: Cotmty,  Hedfield
returns only the number of establiahmenta and the nnmber of  malea  and  remalea  employed.

(132.)      Bmc1:s.-In  Brvtol  Coonty, Attleborough  omits the  amount  of capital invested.
780           NOTES TO ABSTRACT.	(1865.
(135.) WBIPS.-ln Hampdm County, Granville omits retuma of amount of capil&l invested and the nnmber of bands employed; Southwick omits the number of bands employed . In Middluez Cmmty, Sherborn omits amount of capital invested. In Worcnttr Coonty, Millbury omits the namber of bands employed.

(138.) PAILS Al!ID ToBS.-One manufactory in Brilt.ol COtmJy, and one in Worce,tno C91,1nty, do not give the number manufactared.

(147.) PLAl!lll!IO MILLS, &c.-In Uitz Cooniy, Beverly does not return the value of work done; Gro, eland omits the value of sashes, doors and blinds manufactared. In Middluez Cooniy, in the return from the city of Lowell, the valae of stock used is greater than the value of work done. This item was sent back for revision,  bot  no cbsnge was  made. Brighton, and in Plgmoutk Covnty, Manhfield, omit the retarns of value of stock used  and  the amount of  capital  invested.         ·

(148.)  Bous.-In Franl:lin  Cooniy, Buckland, in Micldluez  Cmmly, Chelmsford, and in Plymouth Coonty, Marshfield, do not report the amount of capital  invested. Matta­ poisett ( Ply,n<ndh Coonty) simply returns value of boxes made ; Sooth Scitnate ( PlymotdA Coonty) omits returns of the capital invested and the number of  hands  employed, Io Worcealer Coonty, Douglas omits the amount of capital invested;  Leominster omits  the value  of  stock  used;   Uxbridge   returns   neither   the   amoant  of  tapital  in'l"ellted  nor the
number  of  bands  employed.	•

(152.) bDIA RUBBER GooI>S.-Of the ten localities making returns under this head, eight omit to give the description and quantity of  goods  manufactured;  Malden  ( Middk­
,ez  Coonty) reports 275,000 articles viz.:   100,000 blankets and 175,000 pairs of  boots and
shoes.    Chelsea   ( Suffolk   County)  reports   4,272  gross  or  goods.    In Norfolk  Conly,
Roxbury does not give the number of females (if any)  employed .


(154.) lcE.-ln Banutable Coonty, Wellftcet does not give the number of  bands employed.   In JJ/ul,Jle$t:&  Coonty, .Medford omits to return the value or the ice preserred;
Natick omils the number of tons of  ice  preserred . In  Norfolk  County, Stoughton  does not give the number of hands employed. In all instances tho bands are employed but  a  portion  of  the year.
(156.)    BA1UtR11t11.-Tisbory ( Dukt1  001111/y) omits tlae value of  bread  manufactured. (157.)    D1snLL11:a1u.-In  Hnmpdttt  County, Agawam  omits  the  returns  of   capital
invested.

(160.) WHALE FrsllERY,- ln Dulu, Cowtly, Tisbury omita the amount of capital invested, the number of hand, employed, and other  particulan. In  &,tz Coonty, Bev­ erly reports the number and toDDage of veaaels, capital  invested, and  bands  empleyed, bot no other particulars.

(161.) MACKBRSL AKD COD Fr8BER1E8 ,-ln Bnl'Nlal>k Coanty, Eutbam mu:ea DO returns of the number nor tonnage of tbe vessel, employed. In Brilt»l Counly, Westport gives the value  of the  mackerel  an  codfish  taken, bot omita  the  quantity  in  both  cuee, as well as the  amount of  capital  invested. In Du/cu  County, Tisbury  gives no  return  of the number of "vessela," bot states that the llshing is done iu boau. In F:aw:t  COIMly, Ipswich  omits  the amount   of capital invested.

(162.)    Snau.-Fise.-Several localities do not give the amount of capital invested, nor
the number of persona employed .
1865.J	NOTES  TO  ABSTRACT.	781

(163.) · AL11:w1vu, &o.-In B""'1l County, Westport omite the number of banda employed.

(164.) Coumm TRADE.-ln Barnalal, County, the town of Barnstable omits the amount of capital invested. In Midtlkuz County, Cambridge reports the number and tonnage of vessels, but omit.a other particulars.

(165.) STONE Al.CD MARBLE QuA1uuu.-In .&,ez County, Lynnfield, in Hamp,Mre C0tmty, Goshen, in J fiddluez County, Cambridge, and in Plymouth County, Lakeville, omit  returns  of  capital invested.

(166.) LnrE K1LN1.-In BerbMre County, Richmond omit.a the number of bands employed, and Stockbridge omit.a capital invested and number of bands employed. In Middluez Counly, Cambridge omit.a amount of capital invested, bot states that the lime kilna are Included in the gu works.

(167.) SAW MrLLS.-ln Barnalal,le  County, Sandwich  makes  no return of  the number of saw mills, feet of lumber prepared for market, and valne of the same. In .&,ez C01111ty, the Hamilten ret11111 i,limited to "one mill," but it ia said in a note, "00,000 feet of lumber of all kinda sawn for farmers.'' In Hampden County, Agawam makes no ret11111 bot of "two mHl1 " with the worda appended in a  note,  "Cuatom  Milla;". Chicopee  retnrna "three milla," without other particulars, but  adds  in  a note,  "CUilom work­  keep no account.a;" Montgomery omit.a  capital  invested  and bands employed, but adds in  a note, "The mille (two) are owned by farmers, who 111w lumber for themselves and neighbors.''

(168.) Fumwooo, &c.-Tbe city of Worcester returns only the number of corda of firewood prepared  for market-no other particulars,  Throughout  the  State  one hundred and fifty-one places make no return of capital invested, and one hundred and thirteen localities are eqnally silent u to the number of bands employed. These omiulons are mainly, probably wholly, to be accounted for0by the fact that the wood cut in said locali­ ties ia in reality not "prepared for marut," but for home '<lOD&umption, and cut by the farmers, or the "bands " employed  on farms.

(169.) CB.AEOOAL.- Tbroughout the State thirty-five localities make no return of capital invested, and twenty-ven make no mention of the  number  of penons  employed,
In Worcuter County, Petenham report.a "one man employed three months.''	·

(171.) Cou BROOMS, &c.-ln Berlwlire l'Otmty, Pittsfield, in Franklin County, Leyden, and in Ha,npdffl C01111ty, Longmeadow, omit returns of capital invested, and the number of  persona employed.

(196.) BuTe, &o.-The returns from Newbury, .&,ez County,  Cheater,  Ha,npdffl C<nmty, Pelham, Hamp,hire County,Malden, Medford, Natick, Westford and Wilmington, Artdtllue:e C0tmty, Mattapolaett, Plymouth County, and from Gardner, Worcuter COtmty, omit the number of acree. In H<JttlJ)dffl County, Monson and Springfield, and in Norfo/J; COflldy, Brookline, omit the number of bU1hela. In Middlue:,, c-ty,Acton  omitl  the number of acree,and the value of the produce.  In Norfo/J; County, Needham  returns only the value of the produce, which ia described as "from kitchen  gardens."  West Roxbury omit.a the val11e.

(196.) Fl.AL-In Berbliire Counly, Pittsfield returns the value of flaJc, bat gives no other information.
782	NOTES TO ABSTRACT.	(1865.

(!IAl!l-907.)-Ca.unsDBID-APPLu.-In DWl1' localities  the  cranberry  crop  of  18" wu an entire failure; the extensive meadows in Sudbury of 180 acne yielding only 76 buahele. The town of Weat Bridgewater retuma but 60 bmbela, with the relll&l'k that they often raile 1,1500 buahele.    So, too, with apples iJa DWIY placea.

(210.) Dauam BDl'.-ln Jraddk,u: County, Stow retarns the value, but not the number ot pound.I.

(212.) DUIIIED MU"rTox.-In Berullire County, Pittsfield retul'D8 the number of pounds, but not the value. In Midtlluu County, Acton, and in Worcutn- County, Mendon, return the value, but not the number of pounds.

(213.)    DllEIIIIED VBAL.-ln  BeraAire  O>Mty, Pittafleld,  and  in Middlutz  Coulliy,
Acton and Stow, return the value, but not the number ot pound.I.

(218.) Ho•n-Buaw£L-ln Midtlluu: County, Sudbury, and in Worcutu Cbnly, Leominlter, mate no return of the value of honey.  In Berulure  COllllly, Himdale, end in Eua Cowaiy,  lpewich,  make no return of  the  pounds  weight; and  in Middlutz
Cotmlf, Sudbury makes no return of the value of beeawu.




















S U M M A R Y .






















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
Summary of tM Tahlu, sh()tl}ing the val116 of the artick, manufactured or produced in t/ie Oomm<>nwealtli, the amoui1! of capital invelied, and the number of hand, empl<>!Jtd, with a comparative 1ummary of t/ie return, of 1855.

00














I

,.-..,

Wire,   •
.	.	.	.	.	.	.	'
-	...

Steel,  •
.	.	.	.	.	.	.

CJ)
Q,
..;_,
Wrought  Iron, (Anchors,  Chains,  Cables, &c.,)    .
Pig Iron,  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  Hollow Ware and Caatings, •  .  .  .  .  Cotton  Gine,         .   .   .  .   .   .  . I Machine and Hand  Carda,    .  .   .   . .
Machinery,  •	.	.	.	.	. Locomotive., Steam Engines and Boilers,	.	. Fire Engines,		.	.				.
Scythes,	.	.	.	.	.	.
547
828
2,276
100
154
3,7*4)
2,638
45	O'l
144
Augers, Bits and Gimlets,	.	.	.	.	.
Axes and Hatchets,	.	.	.	.	.	.
Files,  .	.	.	.	.	.	.
Mechanics' Tools,.	.	.	.	.	.	.
Cutlery,	.	I	.	.	.	.	. Nata and Screwe, •	.		.	.	.	. Butte and Hinges,		.	.	.	.
cg	Loeb,  .	.	.	..  .	.
-
484
-
1,048
705
280
88
84
...	Tacke and Brade, .	.	.	.	.
870

Q.
er	Shovels, Spadee, Forb and Hoee,
681
(';	Ploughs and Agricultural Implements, •	.
438
0	o1
c:11
....-
(v


Summary- Continued.	00
0)
.	180& •	18 & & .

A R T I C L E S
Value.	Capital  IDTHted.
BaIndaed.	Value.	I Capital bmeted.  I


BaIndaeel
emp o7	emp o7    •


Metal Sheathing for Vessels,	.	.	.	.	954,610	850,000	140	-	-	-
Copper,	.	8,557,672	855,775	425	1,685,500	626,800	820
Bl'811 Foundries,   •	.	.	.	.	8,285,188	801,419	087	1,504.,050	515,800	540 I
Lamps and Fixtures,	.
344,340	130,000	244
-	-	-










<O.
Britannia Ware,  •	.	.	419,088	189,500	·354	802,000	158,000	882
Buttons,	.	.	608,617	226,800	. 419	267,120	172,500	229
Corsets,	.	.	.	.	215,907	31,000	248	-	-	-
Hoop Skirts,	.	547,103	86,325	417	-	-	-
Glass,  •	.	.	2,536,250
"N'.
:g_
CT
'<
(';
0
....-
(v
1,729,000	2,015	2,648,125	1,805,500	1,887
Starch,.	.	.	.	108,b28	60,000	26	195,800	161,000	48
Chemical Preparations,	986,033	420,500	156	1,124,765	1,095,600	840
Paper Colian,	.	.	274,361	340,500	166	-	-	-
Paper,  .	.	.	.	·.	9,()08,521	3,785,300	3,554 .	. 4,141,847	2,564,500	2,630
Organs, llelodiana and Harmoniums, Piano-fortes, •	.
'



,...,
0'"0"
?




Book.binding,
•
.	.	.	.	.	.
.52,200   I










(lO
Printing and Newspapen,	.	.
Book Publishing, •	.	. Type and Stereotype Foundries, •	.		. Clocks,.	.
Daguerreotypes and Photographs,	.
Sewing Machines,	.	.	.	.
Looking-Glass and Picture Frames,	.	.	:I
Cbronometen, Watches, Gold and SilYer Ware and Jewelry,
Mattrelles,   •
.	.	.	00
Brubes,	.	.
Saddles, Harneaes, &c.,	.	.
:Military Goods and Equipments, •	.	.
Upholstery, •	.	.	.	.	.
Hats and Cape,	..	.	.	.
Fur Goods, Leather Gloves and Mitten,,	.	.
Cordage,	.	.	.	.
0	VeNels,	.	.	.	.	.
cg
N.	Boats, •

(I)
Q.
er
Muta and Spars, •	.	.
(';	Sails;  .	.	.	.	.	1
0


(lO
....-
(v


..






















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a

&mmarg-Continued.
i




I

,-,
;
Keroeene,	.
.	.	.
...
Powder .MUia,	.	.	.
Arms, (including Cannon,)  •
Chain, .	.	.	.
Cabine Ware,	.	.	.	.	.	I
Rattan,	.	.	.	.
Tin Ware,	.	.	.	.	.	I
Combe, .	.
White Lead and other Paints,	.	.	924,274	863,000	12!	910,100	171,000 	71
Drup and Medicines,	.	.	1,484,015	454,649	879	-	-	-
.	.	.	.
Flouring Milla,	.	.	.	.	6,559,097	958,800	856	2,040,040	607,450	178
Tanning and Currying,	.	.
Behing,	.	.	.	.
Patent and Enamelled Leather,	.
Boots and Shoe,, •	.	.	.
Straw Bonnets and Hata,	.	.	.
0	Palm Leaf and Palm Leaf  Hats, •	.	.	.
4,152,426	8,148
cg	Bricks, .
.	.	.	-
1,109
(I)
Q.
CJ"
Tobacco, Snuff and Cigars manufactured,
-	775
'<
(';	Whips, .
0
-	867

ID the 8amlll&l'J' ot 1866, 8perm Oudlee, 011, lloap ud Tallow Cuda., ._ pooped !Gplller,	t Campbe111 ud BIIIDIDC l'lald.	i IDCladecl  with Oablaet Wan.	00
....-
(v

r




















cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a

Summary of tM Ta.bk,, 1hOtDing tlie oolue of the article, manufactured or produced in the Oomrrumwealtl,, tlie amou:I of capital invelted, and the number of  hand, employed, with a  comparative 1ummary of  the return, of 1855.




,i.









































,.........,
C)
?'

Wire,  •
.	.	.	.	.	.
'2,M6,200	'929,500	734	-	-	-	.(:.J.:>. .
Steel,  •
.	.	.	.	.
87,600	200,000	100

CD
c:,,
..:...,
Wrought Iron, (Anchon, Chaina, Cablea, &c.,)	1,310,375	271,500	514	'915,980	f739,600	547
Pig Iron,	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	726,520	647,200	1,235	641,540	567,400	323
Hollow Ware and Cutings, •	.	.	.	6,089,152	1,860,075	2,566	3,256,538	1,613,600	2,276
Cotton Gina,	.	.	.	.	.	.	198,000	116,000	102	·99,000	114,000	100
I Machine and Hand Carda,  .	.	.	.	.	1,195,869	402,000	232	440,240	196,600	154
Machinery,  •	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	6,264,370	2,841,986	4,109	4,089,590	2,484,000	S,7*<)
Locomotives, Steam Engines and Boilera,	.	.	6,013,155	1,382,500	2,958	3,255,000	2,099,500	2,638
Fire Engines,	.	.	.	11,205	17,500	15	50,000	-	45	00
Scythes,	.	.	.	.	.	62,477	72,000	52	120,632	66,000	144
Augera, Bita and Gimleta,   .	.	.	.	82,825	-	79	-	-	-
Axes and Batcheta,	.	.	.	.	.	.	205,745	61,750	lH	626,854	409,860	484
Files,   .	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	856,681	5t5,150	429	-	-	-
Mechanics' Toola, •	768,856	328,950	497	1,142,614.	-	1,048
Cutlery,	.	.	.	.	.	.	1,018,088	470,700	878	578,625	898,200	705
Nuta and Screwa, •	.	.	.	.	299,764	185,000	219	180,000	120,000	2SO.
Butta and Hinges,	.	.	.	65,000	26,000	47	22,000	15,000	S8
cg	Loeb, .	.	.	..	.	.	61,547	25,750	56	66,700	24,500	84
N.
(I)
Q.
Tacke and Brade, •
.	.	.	.	.	.
1,269,866	489,000	324	621,212	278,950	370
er
'<
(';
Shovela, Spadea, Forb and Boes,
.	.	1,150,267	499,790	478	894,515	408,075	681
0	Ploughs and Agricultural Implements, •	.	1,214,428	463,950	534	763,981	189,800	433
....-
(v


Summary-Continued.
.	1sea.	18& &.
g";

A R T I C L E S
Vaine.	Capital IDTeated.
BuI daed.	Value.	I Capital  IDTllt.4.   I


BaInda d
emp o7	emp 01e  •
Metallic Gu, Water and Steam Pipes, •	.	tl,140,215	'315,800	800	-	-	-
Saree, Iron Railinga and Fencee,  • _	.	186,800	84,900	110	f656,400	'289,600	871
Metal Sheathing for Vessels,	.	.	.	954,610	350,000	140	-	-	-
Copper,	.	.	.	3,557,672	855,775	425	1,685,500	626,800	320
Brue Foundries,   .	.	.	.	.	.	3,235,188	801,419	937	1,504.,050	515,300	MO I
Lampe and Fixtures,   .	.
844,340	130,000	244
-	-	-






cg
N.

CJ"
'<
(';
a
Britannia Ware,  •	.	.	.	419,033	139,500	·354	302,000	158,000	332
Buttons,	.	608,617	226,800	.  419	267,120	172,500	229
Conetl,	.	.	.	.	.	215,907	31,000	248	-	-	-
Hoop Skirts,	.	547,103	86,325	417	-	-	-
G11111,   •	.	.	.	2,686,21SO	1,729,000	2,011;	2,648,125	1,805,500	1,887
Starch,.	.	.	.	.	.	108,628	60,000	26	195,800	161,000	48
Chemical Preparations,	.	.	.	986,088	420,500	156	1,124,765	1,095,600	840
Paper Collars,	.	.	.	.	274,361	340,500	166	-	-	-
Paper,  .	.	.	.	-.	.	.	9,008,521	3,785,800	8,5M.	. 4,141,847	2,564,500	2,680
Organ,, Melodians and Harmoniums,  .	620,010	289,000	819	-	-	-
Piano-fortes, •	.	.	.	2,141,424	910,000	1,168	2,295,680	1,280,700	1,765
'





,.....,.
00



Bookbinding,

.	.	1745,704
-'268,400	670
1147,290   1	152,200   I	324

...
Printing and Newspapen,	.	.	6,358,148	1,019,150	2,409 II
Type and Stereotype Foundries, •	210,000	109,500	168
Clocb, .	.	.	.	85,764:	43,000	42   I
1,851,818	749,550	1,184
809,100	116,800  I	318
100,000	17,000	26
Daguerreotypes and Photographs,	.	600,792	309,4:40	720	605,439	139,875   I	260
Sewing Machines,	.	.	1,227,860	796,SOO	549	I	300,000	97,000	184:
Looking-Glass and Picture Frames,	278,486	124,047	236
Chronometen, Watches, Gold and Silver Ware and
Jewelry,  •	\	2,754,088	1,341,237	1,924	2,105,200	720,500	1,268
Mattresses,  •	.
838,038	93,775	164:	I
-	-	-	a,
Brushes,	.	.	387,197	198,800	S80	484:,500	267,600	429
Saddles, Harnesees, &c.,	.	388,396	270,497	641	1,220,049	827,807	966
Military Goods and Equipments, •	.	.	1,ou,000	137,000	675	-	-	-
Upholstery, •	.	802,610	154,800	183	1,876,800	554,250	600
Hats and Caps,	.	1,869,048	607,150	1,402	1,926,105	350,373	1,042
Fur Good,, Leather Gloves and Milten,,	.	558,485	822,100	205
Cordage,	.	.	2,755,202	84:6,475	838	2,478,410	636,400	1,000
0	Veaeels,	.	4,351,280	983,600	1,670	4,643,450	1,940,700	3,592
l:C
:ii,..
cg	Boats,   •
.	.	.	.
121,374	45,155	146	180,161	58,550	212
(I)
Q.
CJ"
Masts and Spars, •
.	.	952,000	148,800	156	247,688	199,900	167
'<
(';
0
Sails;
.	.	.	.
1,345,793	225,975	313	921,300	168,050	519
a,
....-
(v


Summary-Continued,

A R TIC L ES.	I
;
I •=
1885,	1866,



alt,	.	.	.	.				.		. ailroad Can, Coaches, Chaises, Wago111, Sleigha and  other vehicles,    .	•	•	•		•	•
arriage Wheels, •	.	.

Value.


Capital IDTllted.

Value.
I Capital i-w.  I.=: ed.
ugar Refineries, •	.	.	.	.
[aple Sugar,	.
onfectionery,	.	.	.	.
2,056,430	-	315












0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C")
0
ortmonnaies, Pocket  Books, &c.,•	.	.	186,500	87,500	118	262,700	87,000	299
botograpb Albums,	.	.	.	306,202	67,600	134	-	-	-
lothing,	. .	.	.	.	.	17,743,894	4,634,440	24,728	9,061,896	2,770,600	1,758
hocolate and Coffee,  •	.	.	1,227,730	289,250	167	197,013·	1.03,000 	57
[arble and Stone (manufactured,)	.	.
lieet Lead and Lead Pipe, •	.
perm and Tallow Candles, •	.	.	.	474,127	190,050	104	890,000•	600,000	98
Mp,	.	.	.	1,385,550	419,485	. 385	7,720,538	1,582,IIOO 	445
perm, Whale, Lard and Linseed  Oil, .	5,604,761	1,263,000	HO	6,813,291	8,282,013	412
Baildings erected,	.	6,675,498	-	4,576	-	-	-
Blacbmithing,	.	2,055,209	700,780	2,279	-	-	-

















r-,
Sr,:i



...
..:.,

Cabinet Ware,	2,712,484	933,700	2,202	8,069,982   I	1,913,615     I	4,243
Rattan,	569,500	275,800	350
Tin Ware,	1,212,912	604,230	979	1,451,240     I	570,975   I	1,131
Combs, .	507,586	178,500	599	557,422
White Lead and  other Paints,	924,2H	363,000	124	910,190	171,000	71
Drugs and Medicines,	1,434,015	454,649	379	-	-	-
Glue and Gum,	233,700	133,100	90	532,650	124,450	138
Flouring Mills,	6,559,097	958,300	356	2,040,040	607,450	173
Tanning and  Currying,










0
cg

CJ"
(';
0
In  the Summary or 1856, Sperm Candws, OIi, Soap and Tallow Candl88, were   gt()uped tqrether.	t  Oamphene and Burning J'htld.	t Inoluded with  Cabinet Wo.re.	00
....-
(v


Summary-Continued,

1seis.	1866 ,

A R T I C.L E S,
Value.	Capital lnveatcd.
Ba1nda d	Valuo.	I c'apllal  Jovcatcd.   I

na1ndaed.
emp oye  •	emp oy
-
Blacking,	.	.	.	.	f l51,510	169,253	53	175,800	- 	60
Blocks aod Pumps,	.	.	.	105,462	65,160	131	814,510	-	296
Pails, Tubs and Wooden  Ware,   •	.	.	.	598,295	296,241	524	745,711	-	610
Gold  Peoe and  Gold Leaf,    .	.	.	154,800	87,400	83	64,885	128,500 	31
Lasts and Shoe Pegs,   .	.	150,722	62,430	138	192,850	-	-
Casks,  •	.	.	.	.	.	.	607,896	230,337	539	802,874	257,957	828
Stone and Earthen ,vare,	.	.	.	107,050	51,000	97	125,450	61,250 	118
Coffins and Burial Cases,	.	.	219,579	116,955	240	-	-	-
Planing .Mille, 8-hea, Doors, &c., •	.	761,497	468,200	538	936,959	328,980	774
Boxee, (wood and paper,)	.	.	.	1,826,448	484,160	1,102	997,784	489,125	702
}'riction  Matches, Fire Worb and Razor  Straps, •	802,205	121,750	315	95,750	32,800 	150
cg	Iodia Rubber Goods,   .	.	.	.	.	2,808,315	1,600,000	1,055	968,000	438,000	462
Gu,	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.


CJ"
'<
(';
a
2,020,085	4,851,266	668	932,332	2,783,900	818
Ice,	.	.	.	.	.	775,077	564,935	1,080	639,100	701,700	-
Pickles and Preservee, •	.	.	795,500	803,900	257	846,858	151,300	185
Bakeriee,	.	.	8,359,848	581,075	991	3,592,609	640,000	1,187
Distilleries,  •	.	.	.	.	1,187,506	880,210	101	8,153,828	964,950	147

,........,
00
?
;..
00

4,832,21
Alewives, Shad, Salmon and Shell-FiKh,	451,086	85,915	1,635	73,156	-	485
Coaatwiso Freights,	.	.	.	.	.	11,319,394	16,816,929	9,428
Stone, Marble and Lime, (Quarries,)	837,113	296,925	958	94,907•	-	110
Saw Mills,   .	.	.	5,087,785	1,590,410	2,040	3,664,463	-	3,413
Firewood and Bark,	.	8,016,841	415,547	3,444	2,960,915	-	5,325
Charcoal, Coal and Ore Beds,	.	.	403,895	280,281	603	848,944	-	225
i.:..,
Corn and otberrooms,	.	.	.	208,021	77,000	157	823,185	-	260	00
.	.	-	-
Rye,	.	.	.	.	875,Ml	-	-	560,202	-	-
Wheat,	.	.	.	80,884.	-	-	78,928	-	-
Barley,.	.	.	.	.	182,548	-	-	110,158	-	-
Buckwheat,  •	.	.	59,099
Oats,   .	.	.	.	.	583,908	-	-	568,729
Millet, all other  Grain  and Grau Seed,	.			14,579	-	-		291,712 Potatoes,	•	.		.	2,607,202	-		2,521,906
cg	Turnips,	.	186,724	-	-	116,351
N.
(I)
Q.
er
'<
(';
Onions, Cabbage,
.	.	.
.	.

821,604
199,326
-	-	187,446
-	-	148,041t
0	 	
-.:i
<O
....-
(v


Summary-Concluded.

1se6,	1866 ,
...
NI

A R T I C LES,
Value.	I Capllal lnvute4. I
BandaecL	Value.	I Capllal lnY..ted.   I



BaIndaeel


































0
<g:
;;;·
(0
a.
!Z
C')
0
emplo1	emp 01 ,


Winter Squash,   .		.        .		f95,776	-	-	-	-         - Beets and other Eaculent Vegetables, •	.      9,568	-	-        '484,568	-        - Market Gardening,	.   .      .		722,150	-	-	-	-         -
Garden Seeda,     .   .      .   .   .  .     11,MO	-        -	-	-	-
Hope,  •	.	.     .        32,088	-         -	47,461	-	-
Tobacco,      .  .        .  .  .   .        1,616,896	-        -       57,478	-       -
Cranberries, •	.   .        .  .   .    102,865	-	-        135,200	-	-
Hay,	.        .   .  .   .	13,195,274	-	-       8,702,817	-        -
Fruit, (Apples,.,ears, &c.,) .			1,713,240	-		-      l,SJ5,242	-	- beep and Wool, •	.        .  .    1,153,STT	-	-      464,889	-        - Hones, Oxen, Cows, &c.,		19,154,790	-		-      15,428,521	-         - Milli:,    .   .      .     .       .        1,930,409	-         -       775,888	-        -
Butter, Cheese and Honey, •	2,265,296	-	-       2,161,845	-        -
Beef,	8,228,859	-	-	-	-	-
Pork,	.        .	4,775,892	-	-	-	-        -
Mutton,	.	.  .   .   1,091,531	-        -        -	-	-
Veal,  .	646,088	-	-	-	-         -









,.......,
00
Swine, •	.	.



OC>
c,,

•


8


00

Bauu.-l'lp 88, Value of Uerdlgrau 8eed : For 600 buahell rt11d 1; tbr S«IO ""4'6,







cg
N.


CJ"
'<
(';
a	i
•













•
E A C H	C O U N T Y .

To&alao


Cott Call Ble1

ca.,
Ani1 WOI Sba1000
Hoel
Bala Wot Lint Silk




2,683,625
86t,300
120,000
2-19,952
151,"60

,&23,000 lM,000 91,625

Sl(ll,800

119,000
380,000


lli,000




100,000

$,&li,000
H0,000

10,000
11,2,,s0o0o0

191,872
119,000

"9,000
$8,878,295
1,863,692
'57,369
12,917,388
1,139,500
1,893,000
270,991
200.000
'60,600
300,000
'5',438,881
211,168.703 ll,199,869 1,336,089
"8,430,671
,,1112,508
'67,400
2,192,15"
663 799
684,230
2,049.ooT
liH,MO
991,900
597,000
Dre1
----
:_..J,. 	...__1
,097,000
all!R!M,_,L_;
l,OU,805
2,500,000
1,300,000
India	117,000	5,000	104,000	32,800 ,
6ti8,000	53 ooo
G'a•,700	134,000	9,132	1,073;10;;	83,-&97    ,
18,422  i
302,205
2,808,315
2,020,085
795,500

1,422,4.10



Saw	I	121,299 5,,i45
11,319,394

so.

•"'"'


199,326


32,038

Fruit" Shee0,

225,207
,634,750

Pork


Bees

--,246,047 -
:65   $36,771,397   $17,632,246   $86,349,174
$76,271,724
$517,2!0,613
-- - --=================::.:....:=--=--=-=-==--·=-=-=-=- --



NEWSPAPER$.  AND  PERIODICALS

11'  TBB


COMMONWEALTH  OF MASSACHUSETTS,
•	186 5 .

B Y   C O U N T I E S.


ABaananoaa.-d.,  4al17;  ,."·• trl-weetJy;  ,."·• Nllll-weekly;   "·•	kly;   t.m., trl-mont.blJ;
b.111.,bl-mont.bly;  m.,montllly;  q.,quarterly;  a.,ADtlual.


BAB1'8TABLB CoUllTT,
Barnstable Patriot, 10., Barnstable. Yarmouth Register, 10., Yarmouth.

BBB1t8MBB CoUllTT.
Adame News and Trauecript, 10., Adams,
Berbbire Courier, 10., Great Barr!Dgton , Valley Gleaner, w., Lee.
Pittsfield Sun, w., Pittsfield.
Berbhire County Eagle, w., Pittsfield.
Ba1STOt  CotllffT.
Fall River Journal, w., t. 10., Fall River.
Fall River News, d.,	"
Fall River Preas, 10.,	"
Nn Bedford Mercury, d.,w., N.Bedford .
Nn Bedford  Shipping List, d., 10,,  "
Union Democrat and Gazette, w., Taunton.
Daily Gazette, cl.,	"
Brutol County Republican, w.,	"
DUKES  COUlffT,
Vineyard  Gazette, w., Edgarto1t'll.

E88u: CotllftT, Andover Advertiser,• w., Andover. Bibliotbc:eca Sacra,t q.,	" Beverly Citizen, 10., Beverly.
Telegraph, ,. 10., Gloucester.
Cape Ann Advertiser, 10., Gloucester.
Cape Ann Light, 10.,	" Haverhill Gazette, ID., Haverhill. Beaex Banner, to.,	"
Tri-Weekly Publisher, t.w., "
La11N11c:e American , 10., Lawrence. Lawrence Sentinel, 10.,	"
Lynn Balletin,f ,. ID., Lynn. Lynn Reporter, ID,,	"
Euex County Mercury, w., Salem.
Salem Register, w.,	"
Salem Gazette, to.,	"
Salem Observer, to.,	"
Fae% Statesman, ,. 10.,	:,
Saliabury Villager, 11!•, Salisbury.
FBAllnl1' CotnrrT.
Gazette and Courier, w., Greenfield.
RAxPoo  CotnnT.
Holyoke Tranacript, 10., Holyoke, Palmer Joumal, w., Palmer.
Newa-Letter, 111.,	"
Ware Standard, to.,	"
Springfield Republican, d.,,.111.,w.,8pJ'Ul8-
field.
Springfield Union, d., Springfield. Westfield Newa-Letter, 111., Westfield,

186&-eouollda&ed with the "Lawrence American ."
t 1886-traDdwnd to Boetoo.
l 1886	lld publklalloll,
79i	NEWSP.A:PERS   AND  PERIODICALS.
[1865.

IIAIIIP8Bmi: CoUKTY,
Hampehire Expreu, ID,,Amherst.
Hampehire Gazette, ID,,Northampton.
:free Press, ,.10.,	"

M1DDLUBX  CouMTY,
Cambridge Chronicle,•te., Cambridge. B1111ker Hill Anrora, ID,, Charlestown. Charlmown   City Advertiaer,  ID,,    Charles-
town.
Daily Citizen and News, d., Lowell.
Daily Courier, d.,	"
Weekly Journal, to.,	"
Weekly Vox Popnli, ID,,	"
Weekly American Citizen, ,o.,  "
Waltham Free Prea, ID,, Waltliam. Waltham Sentinel, 10.,
Pioneer, ID,, Weatborough. Middleaex Joornal, ID,, Woburn.

N.AllTUCltET Cou!ITY,
hlqairer and Mirror, ID,, Nantucket.

NOBll'OLK  C011KTY,
Dedham Gazette, ID,, Dedham. Quincy Patriot, ID,,   Quincy.
Tranacrlpt and  Advertiaer, ID., Randolph. Norfolk County Joornal, ID,, Roxbury.
Roxbury City Gazette, ID,,	"
Stoughton Sentinel, ID,, Stoughton.

PLYllOUTR COUNTY,
Abington  Standard,  ID,,  Abington. Hingham Journal and  Sootli Shore  Adver-
tiser, ID,, Hingham.
Middleborough Gazette, tc.,Middleborough. Wareham News, ID,,	"
Bridgewater Danner, te.,	"
East Bridgewater News, to,,	"
North Bridgewater Gazette, ID,, No. Bridge-
water.
Old Colony Beotia, ID,, Plymouth. Old Colony Memorial, ID.,	"
Plymouth Rock, 10.,	u
SUFl!'OLK CoUNTT,
American Educational Monthly, m., Boston. Advent Herald, 10.,	" Advocate of Peace, m.,
American Phrenolog'lJoomal,t m.,Boston. American Railway Timea,	"
American Union, 10.,	"
American Nichter Botechafter,	"
Atlantic Monthly, m.,	"
Balloa's Dollar Montlily, m.,	"
Banner of Light, 10.,	"
Boston Cultivator, to.,	..
Boston Daily Advertiser, cl.,  .10.,to.,  "
Boston Directory,
Boston Herald, d.,	"
Boston Intelligeoz Blatt, to., q.,
B08ton Journal, d.,,.10., to.,
Boston Journal qf  Homceopathy, q.,
B08ton Marine Reporter, t.m.,
Boeton Poet, d.,	"
Boetoo Preu and Post,,.10.,	"
Boston Recorder, ID,,
Boston Review, b. m.,	K
Boston Stateamao, 10.,	"
Child'• Paper,
Cbrbtian Advocate, w.,	"
Cbrlatian Banner, m.,	"
Christian Era, io.,	"
Christian Examiner, b. m.,	II
Christian Register, to.,
Christian Walchmao, io.,
Christian Witness,	"
Christian World, m.,	II
Charch Monthly, m.,
Commercial Bulletin, 10.,
Congregationalist, 10.,	"
Congregational  Quarterly, q.,
Conrler,J d., ,.w.,10.,	"
Daily Evening Voice,\ d.,
Der Pionier, 10.,	II
Dwight's Journal of Music, ,. m.,
Express Pathfinder, q., Flag of our Union, to.,
Freedman's Journal, m.,	II
Freemason's J\lonthly Magazine, m.,     Cl
Friend of Virtue, m.,
Fruita of America, b. m.,	"
Gleuon'1Pictorial, 10.,	"
Good News, m.,
Harry Huel's Yankee Blade, w.,
Herald of Health, m.,	"
Home Miuiouary, 111.,	Cl
Home Monthly, m.,	II
American Messenger, "'·• American Jlliecellany, 10.,
Horticaltnrist, m.,	"
Investigator, w.,	"
April U, 1866, commenced a new weeti, paper,  "The Oambrldge p.   ,,
t  Principal pnbllahlng place, New York.
i 1866,   "Tho Commercial."	i ltlGO, dally and weekly.
1865.J	NEWSPAPERS AND PERIODICALS.
1f7

Lady's Allll&Dac, a.,	Boston,
Ladies' Repoeitory, m.,	"
Law Reporter, m.,	"
Liberator,• 111,,	"
Literary Companion, to.,	"
Llttell'I Living Age, VI,,	II
Macedonian, m.,	"
Hagazine of Hortlcnlture, m.,	"
Muonic llonthty, m.	"
:U-chuaeu, Ploughman, 111.,	"
Maaachuaetts Register, 11.,	"
1d.uaacbuaett1 Teacher, m.,	" Medical and Surgical Journal, 10., m., " Methodist  Quarterly  Review, g.,        "
Missionary Advocate, m.,	"
Miaaionary Herald, na.,	u
Mlaeionary Magazine, m.,	"
Monthly Novellette, m.,	" Monthly  Ten  Cent  Novellette, -., Monthly Religions Magazine, m.,	" tJ Mother's Assistant,	"
Myrtle, b. •·,	u
New Church Magazine, m.,	"
New England Buaioeaa Directory, a., "
New England Dial, w.,	"
New England  Farmer, 111.,	"
New F..ngland Hietorical Register, g., "
New England Insurance Gazette, m., " New Jerusalem Magazine, m.,	"
N, American Joor. of Hommopathy, q., "
North American Review, g.,	"

Student and Schoolmate, m., Sunday School Advocate, b. m., Sunday  School Gazette,
Sunday Herald, 10.,
The Child at Home, m., The Commonwealth, w.,
The Freedman, The Nation, to., The Radical, m.,
The Traoecript, d., 111.,
The Traveller, d., ,.to., w.,
The Tract Journal, m., The True Flag, 111., Unitarian Journal, ..., Univenaliat, 111.,
Waverley Magu.lne, to.,
Well.Spring, 10.,
World's Criai8, 10.,
Wide World, w.,
Youug Pilgrim.,b. m.,
Youth'• Casket, m., Youth's Companioo, 111., Youth's Vialtor,  m.,
Zion's Herald, w.,
Chelsea Bnlletin, '°·• Chelsea.
Chelsea Telegraph, ac., "

°\VORCBITKR COUKTT,
Barre Gazette, 10., Barre. Fitchburg Reveille, to., Fitchburg. Fitchburg Sentinel, to.,	"

Boetoo.
"
"..
.".
"
II
"
"
"
"
" "..
II II II
"
II

II II
Our Yonng Folks, a, Pathdnder Railway Guide, 10., Pilot, w.,
Saturday  Evening  Eitpreu, w.,
Saturday Evening Gazette, 10.,
Shipping List, ,.w.,
Shoe and Leather Reporter, 10.,
..
"
"
"..
Milford Joumal, to., Milford. Webster Times, to., Webster.
Southbridge Jonmal,  to., Southbridge.
Worcester Tranacript,t  d., w., Worceater.
Worcester Spr, d., 10.,	"
Worceater Palladium, ao.,	"





Dally,
CLASSES  OF  NEWSPAPERS  AND PUBLICATIONS.
8 IDaily,	• 	10
1K BoBTOlr,	OUT  OP BoeTOK,

Tri-Weekly, Semi-Weekly, Weekly,
Tri-Monthly, Bi-Monthly, Monthly, Quarterly, • Annual,
Total of  all cluses in  Doetoo,

- Tri-Weekly,	ll
11   Semi-Weekly,	II
411   Weekly,	76
1 Tri-Monthly,
Bi-Monthly, ti Monthly,
Quarterly, •	1
II Annual,
125	Total of  all classes out of Boetou,
1868-atloet; CMled pobllcatlon  lut -.11111 188&,
t  1886-" W-1er0..t&e."














,.





I N D E X
T O   C O U N T I E S  A N D   T O W N S.



Pago. J	Pa,..
Abington,	• 474 1 Brighton,   •	•	331
Acton,.	•    321   Brimfield,   •	•	243
Acuabnet,
•     77
Ba1aroL Couisr,
77
Adame,
23
Brookfield, •
ti67
Agawam,
240
Brookline,   •
427
Alford,
26
Back.land,
203
A.Jiieabary , .
127
Burlington, •
333
Amherst,
ll81
Cambridge, •
334
·Andover,
129
Canton,
429
Aabbamham,
MO
Carliale,
340
Aabby,
323
Carver,
479
Aahfleld,
200
Charlemont,
204
Aabland,
825
Charlestown,
341
Athol, .
M2
Charlton,
liMI
Attleborough,
78
Chatham,
Ii
Auburn,
1146
Chelmaford, .
343
BAU8TAnL&  COUNTY,
1
Cbelaea,
636
Daruatable, •
1
Cheshire,
29
Barre, .
1147
Cheater,
246
Becket,
ll8
Cheaterfield,
286
:Bedford,
326
Chilmark,
1111
Belchertown,
284
Chicopee,
246
Bellingham,
424
Clarkabarg,
81
Belmont,
827
Clinton,
660
Berkley,
81
Cohuaet,
431
Bmau1u Cou:rrT,
113
Colrain,
206
Berliu ,
660
Coacord,
846
Beruardaton,
902
Conway,
207
Beverly,
132
Cummington,
ll87
Billerica,
8ll8
Dalton,
311
Black.atone,
1132
Dana, .
662
Blandford,
242
Danvers,
136
Bolton,
664
Dartmouth,.
82
Boeton,
621
Dedham,
488
Boxborough,
330
Deerfield,
209
Boz(ord,
la.&
Dennis,
7
Boylaton,
MIi
Dighton,
83
Brad(ord ,
136
Dorchester, •
436
Braintree,
425
Douglas,
664
Brewster,
4
Dover,
439
Bridgewater,
477
Dracut,
348
809	INDEX  TO  COUNTIES  AND  TOWNS.

678
w
357

299


Ml


46

Fitchburg,  •



330


aeo
. 363
. 161

'"




















INDEX TO COUNTIES AND TOWNS.	801
Pago.	P81e.
Mount Washington,  •	61   Bowley,	180
Nahaut,	169         Roxbury,	468
NA1'TUCll:ET  COUNTY,	,21    Royalston, 	810
Nantucket,  •	,21    Rull8ell,
Natick,	lf17    Rutland,	812
Needham,	l Salem,	182
New Ashford,	62  Sa1isb11ry,	187
.lfew Bedford,	100        Sandisfield, •	62
New Braintree,	005  Sandwich,	15
Newbury,	170    Saugus, 	190
Newburyport,	172          Savoy,	M
New Marlborough,	53   Scituate,	6H
New Salem,	225   Seekonk,	110
Newton,	380   Sharon,	"3
NOlll'OLlt COUNTY,	424  Sheffield,	61
Northampton,	301    Shelburn,	ll31
North Andover, •	176         Sherborn,	887
Northborough,   ·•	697    Shirley, 	888
Northbridge,	li98 Shrewsbury,	813
North Bridgewater,	Im   Shuteebary,	ll33
North Brookfield,	eoo Somenet,	111
)Tortb Cbelaea,	638   Somerville, •	l90
Nortbneld, •	!126  Southampton,	812
North Reading,	882   Southborough,	615
Norton,	IOii   Southbridge,	618
Oakham,	802    South Danvers, 	191
Orange,	928   South Hadley,	810
Orleans,	13       South Reading,	39!&
Otia,	611   South Scituate,	1116
Oxford,	803  Southwick, •	iSli
Palmer,	281    Spencer,	619
Paxton,	805   Springfield,	266
Pelham,	305   Sterling,	820
Pembroke, •	li08   Stockbridge,	87
Pepperell,	383   Stoneham, •	39.
Peru,  .	56    Stoughton, •	'811
Petenham, .	806   Stow, .	398
Pbillipeton, •	808   Sturbridge, •	822
Pittalleld,	57    Sudbury,	397
Plainfield,  •	307   SUFFOLK CouNTT,	&.U
PLYMOUTH   COUNTY', .	.7.    Sunderland,	i3li
Plymoath,  •	li08   Batton,	8M
Plympton,  •	612    Swampecou,	lN
Prescott,'	309    Swanzey,	113
Princeton,  •	609   Taunton,	•  lH
Provi11cetown,	H    Templeton,.	62t
Q11incy,	Tewksbury,	398
Randolph,	Tisbury,	1911
Raynham,	107      Tolland,	rn
Reading,	386  Topefleld,	196
Rehoboth,	108   Townaend, .
Richmond, •	81   Truro,.	18
Rocheerer, •	613  Tyngsborough,
Rockport,	178  Tyriugham,	69
Bowe,	Upton,	85111
101
802	INDEX  TO  COUNTIES  AND TOWNS.


Uxbridge, Wales, Waltham, Walpole, Ware, . Wareham, • Wamm, Wanrick, • Wuhington, Watertown, Wayland, Webster, WeWleet, Wendell, Wenham, Weetborongb, West Boylat.on,
West Bridgewater, West Brookfield, West Cambridge, west.field, • Weetford,   •
weethampt.on,
Pqe,
830    Westminster,
272     Weat Newbnry,  •
403   Weston,
467    Weatport,  •
3H   West Roxbnry, 1118  West Springfield,
882   West Stockbridge,
237   Weymouth,
70  Whately,  ,
406    Wilbraham,
409 Williamaburg, 6M Williamstown, 19          Wilmington,
238 Winchendon, 197    Wincheeter, 636  Windsor,   . 639 Winthrop,  • 1119    Woburn,    •
6il   WOBCB8l'D Cot7lff!',
410    Worcester,  •
i74   Worthington,
412   Wrentham,.
818        Yarmoutb, •
Pap.
641
1118
414
119
469
277
n
470
239
279
816
78
4111
643
417
7&
113
418
li40
646
319
47!
lll





I N D E X
T O   T H E  T A B L E S.



l'a,e.
Alewi••, Shad and Salmon,	766
All other anicl• not  before  enume-
rated,	• 7113
Anchon, Chaim, Cablee, &c.,	875
American Wonted,    •	866
Anna, (including CannOA,)	728
Augen, Bite and Glmleta,  •	883
Ax• and Hatcheta,	8M
Bakeriee,   .	Tlii
Balmoral Skirts, •	809
Barley,	76i
Buket Willow,	787
Beef,  •	ffl
:0-....U,  .	77f
. Beets, •	778
Belting,	7311
Belt Ribbon	8711
B*king,     •	TU
.Blacbmithlng,	7211
Bleached and Colored Goode,	881
Blocks and Pumpe,	7411
Boats, .	ru
Bookbinding,	709
Book-publiebing,	703
Boote and Shoes,	TH
Bonnet Ribbona, •	8711
Box• (wood and paper,)	7'8

Calico and Moaaeelloe Delaine, • CarpetinJ,  •  •   •   •   .  Carda, Card and Bonnet Paper, . Oarrlage Wbeele,
Carrots, Cub, . Charcoal, Chain,
Cb- Faetoriee, Chemical Pnpuati Chocolate, •
Cbronometen,  Watchee, &c.,
Clocks, Clothing, • Clover,
Coal and Ore Coaattrile Freigbta, Colfee,
Cofln,, Combe, Confectionery, Copper, Cordage,   .
Com and othen Broome, Com, Indian and Broom, Coneta,
Cotton,
P119.
880
8811
889
n11 7811
.71,1.9
773
9118
790
1'11
™790
78'
7119
7118
m
747
731
n8
891
711
700
781
8M
8118
Bna Foundriee,.	8111  Cotton Gina, 	880
Bmreriee, .	lflil
Bricb,	739
Britannia Ware, •	89ll
Broome,	700
Bl'lllhee,	TM
Backwbeat,	783
Bogle Trimminge,	m
Building,    •	7111
Butter, Cb- and Hone,,	771
Battou,	893
Butta and Hingtt,	888
Cabbage,   •	7811
Cabine& Ware,  •	780
Cotton, Woollen, &  other  lfachinery,
Cranberriee, Cutlery,
Dagueneoc,pee and Pbotograpba,
Diatilleriea, •
0nmTrimmings, Drugs and Hedicinee, Engine, and other H-, Ennl &c., .
Fume, Fum and Famil7 Prodace,
Feathen and Artl1lclal Flonn, •
Fil•, .
Fire EngiDee,
880
788
8811
TOIi
71111
878
73ll 737
n,
700
m
8M
88ll
804	INDEX  TO  TABLES.


Firewood and Bark,
Page.
759
Page.
Newapapera,	79'
Fireworka,  •
749
Notes to Tables, •	775
Flax, .
766
Nuta and Screws,	686
Flouring Milla,
734
Oata,  .	763
Friction Matches,
7'9
Oil, Sperm, Whale, &c.,	™
Fruit, Apples, &c.,
769
Onions,	765
Fur Goode, .
711
Ore Beds,	759
Gu,
760
Organs, Melodeons, &c.,	699
Garden Seeds,
766
Pails and Tube,  •	742
Glau, .
895
Palm Leaf, •	738
Gloves and Mittens,
711
Palm Leaf Hata,	739
Glue and GUDl.81 •
783
Paper,.	697
Gold Leaf,  •
7«
Paper Colian,	697
Gold Pena,   •
743
Patent  and Enamelled Leather,  •	736
Hata and Cape,
710
Philoeophical & Naut.ical Jnevument., 7.0
Hay,
768
Photograph Alblllll&,  •	718
Head Neta and Head I>-,
871
Piano.Cort.et,	700
Herdagrue Seed,
78'
Pickles and Preaervea,	751
Hollow  Ware and Cutinge,
679
Pig lroll,	678
Hooka and Eyes,
708
Pina,	74»
Hoop Skirta,
6N
Planing )l(illa, &c.,  •	1''1
Hooey and Beeawax, •
774
Ploughs and other Agricwtual Iaple-
Hop,, .
767
meota,	688
H-,Oxea and Con,
771
Pork,  .	771
Boliery,	668     PortmoDDaies, Walleta,  Poeket Boob,
Ice,
761
&c., .
718
IDdla Robber good•,
760
Potatoes,    •
':M
Ink,
719
Poaltry and Eggs,
11•
Iron Railing, Fences, Safes, &c.,
690
Powder Milla,
7
Jet Pina, &c.,
871
Printing and Newspapers, .
701
Keroaene,
716
Railroad  Cars, Chaiaee, &c.,
716
Lldtes' Silk Scam,
870
Rattan,
730
Lampe and F"11turea, •
89ll
Rasor St.rape,
7'8
LMta and Shoe Pegs, •
7«
Rolled and Slit Irou and Naila, •
670
Lime Kilos,
757
Rye,
762
Llnen,.
673
Saddles, Bameasea and Trunks,  •
709
Linen Colian and Cu&,
670
Saile,   •
713
Locks,.
887
Salt,
7H
Locomotives, Steam Engines, &c.,
882
Saw Milla, •
768
Looking Glaaaes and Picton Frames,
707
Seythea,
883
Hachloery, .
880
Sewing Machines,
70,&
Machine and Hand Carda, ,
681
Sheep and Wool,
770
llaekerel and Cod F"Jlbery,
755
Shell,F!ah,  •
TM
Maple Sugar,
716
Sheet Lead  and Pipe, •
m
llarble and Stone,
'llll
Ships or Veaaela, •
719
llarket Gardening,
766
Shoddy,
668
lheta and Span,
713
Sbovela, Spadea, Forks, Hoee, &e.,
688
Mattresees, .
708
Silk, ,
87.
lhchanica' Toole,
886
Silk Scar&,.
670
Metallic, Gu, Water, and S*-Pipe,
6811
Silver Ware and Jewelry,   •
707
lletallic Sheathing for Veaeela, • llllitary Goode nd .Eqaipmentl, llllk,  .
690   Snuff', Tobacco and Cipn,
709 1 So.p, •
ffi  Sorghum,  •
•  7'0
7!11
787
llillet,
llllttoll,
783 \  Sperm, Whale, Linaeed and Laro. Oil,
773   Sperm and Tallow Cu.dies,	•	•
75N
7!19
INDEX TO TABLES.	805


'fumips,	"'I









..Goodo,  .	. 	662
Woreted

f1\.h;;;' If f.l'f •l.,:"r, (1,."\
\ll.•   •  · , ·;..:.··· • ·s
,·'   .   . ..·-,,-_ 1-.)-j
